about the proceed towards the door.
when the candle went out who is it.
Bhabaprasad here sir Why have you come now.
I have come to clear away the dishes.
Yes Bhaba was right.
after my dinner he had not taken.
away the dishes but danger couldnt be ruled out.
besides it was not that important for.
him to remove the dishes now.
he could do so after the storm.
so I said come later after the.
thunderstorm abates.
I have something to tell you sir.
what could he have to say in this.
situation what if it was actually the ghost in.
the guise of bhabaprasad come to coax and trap.
me in his eager claws as I opened the.
door it looked like the watchman called bhabaprasad had.
entered the room completely drenched in the rain.
well actually in the pitch dark of the.
room I only tried to feel his presence and.
consoled myself that he was indeed bhabaprasad.
he could be someone else a thief.
a robber or ningni the ghost.
sir the thing is.
bhabaprasad began as he lit the candle.
which palliated the scary situation inside the.
room to a great extent.
put away that firearm.
you wont need it because ningni will.
not kill you like he killed Gogoi and Niranjan.
i felt a bit uneasy because I had.
not wanted my weaknesses to be detected by Bhabaprasad.
in such an embarrassing manner.
do you know how many boys gogoi cheated.
with false promises of jobs many fathers had sold.
off their lands and given him money.
but he failed to provide a single job to anyone.
bhabaprasads sudden change of attitude towards gogoi.
caught me unawares.
he even took away my only daughter.
to town promising her a job and then allegedly.
sold her off to a contractor.
his heart broke in agony as he said it.
which contractor i asked trying to add salt.
to his wounds niranjan.
the one whom ningni had strangled and.
whose blood was then drunk up by the ghost.
bhaba said self contentedly.
in the meantime he had finished clearing.
away the dishes and cleaning the table.
I know that you have come here.
to probe the two murder cases.
with one stroke bhabaprasad seemed to have razed.
to the ground the so called success of my fifteen year.
career in the police force.
because I had been puffed up on.
the belief that no one was aware of the.
official reason for my visit here.
i think I have not committed any seen.
by strangling gogoi and niranjan and then putting the.
blame on Ningni the Ghost.
the statement flowed out of bhabaprasads throat.
like a very confident declaration.
you are not believing me because being.
a policeman you need proof.
he said mocking at me severely.
where is your daughter now.
two days after being sold off she hanged.
herself from the ceiling fan.
i did not notice any change of expression.
on bhabas face.
before dying she had reportedly spat out.
curses at her father.
he said and left the room wet.
the dishes in his hands.
i heard the flapping sounds his torn.
sandals made as he said if it is okay.
with you then I shall stay in my room.
in the morning i will voluntarily come with.
you to the police station.
but you ought to sleep now the.
storm has abated.
the weather has cleared and theres no.
more fear of ningni the ghost.
meanwhile power was restored and the thunderstorm was.
over so there was no chance that the.
ghost would come now.
but i couldnt sleep for fear of other ghosts.
would the ghosts of gogoi and niranjan come in.
i picked up the revolver.
was it ningni the ghost that had come here.
in the guise of bhabaprasad and talked to me.
i sat up in bed and waited for daybreak.
to overcome that fear.
they wont do anything if left alone.
after all they too understand love and.
affection I had heard many nature lovers talk about.
love for animals but till date I have not been.
able to gather the courage to find out the.
truth and have also not nurtured any remote wish.
to do so So naturally it was not surprising for.
me to get apprehensive at the possibility of an.
attack from the monkeys and then.
i noticed bhabaprasad getting unduly.
amused at the sudden apprehension that had gripped
have they ever harassed anyone Say.
like destroying clothes and belongings.
or getting angry and clawing or gnawing.
at without letting me finish bhabaprasad explained that no.
such incident had ever occurred because the monkeys had.
by now understood that visitors came to the bungalow.
just for a night or two to rest and.
could never challenge their territorial supremacy like permanent residents.
In fact during their brief stay the visitors.
either out of fear or love for.
natures resources would try to weave a temporary bond.
or friendship with the animals.
that in no way caused any obstruction.
to the dominance of the monkeys.
i did not let bhabaprasad know that i.
was not comforted by his assuagement.
he fetched two buckets of water and.
placed them in the bathroom well water.
from where will you get municipal water here.
there were some traces of resentment in bhabaprasads straightforward.
reply It was natural because apart from the.
wells there could be no other source of.
in the night i can simply open the door.
and fetch the water myself.
i said as i changed my clothes.
bhabaprasad must have been convinced that i had.
no doubts about his sincerity and it was only.
to save him the unnecessary trouble that I had.
volunteered to fetch water from the well when required.
he said i will be there.
you need not worry.
i had thought he would stop at that.
but proving me wrong he came near.
me and whispered it would be advisable not to.
venture out of the bungalow because these are not.
good times You can call me if you need.
water or want me to go to the market.
or fetch cigarettes.
betelnut drinks etc.
from the atmosphere pervading the area i could.
guess that it would not be wise to move.
around alone and invite trouble.
tomorrow morning when the forest department jeep.
arrives it would be better to get into it.
finish my official work and leave this.
place Nowadays it is natural for gun-toting youths.
to visit such isolated places more frequently.
its the forest I am talking about.
huh how will my job be done if.
i am so scared of the guns since i.
have come here on official duty i must go.
out tomorrow how can i remain indoors out of.
fear with the arrogance of a courageous and sincere.
government officer i hurled the words like darts at.
bhabaprasad and looked at him with pride.
i was sure that he had been.
convinced about todays sir being a man of mettle.
a fearless officer pledged to his official.
duties and to whom duty had more worth than.
his own life i am not talking about the boys.
they will come openly.
indulge in some act and leave.
but its these unseen ones that create.
more trouble.
I was unable to make any head or.
tail of what bhaba was saying even as i.
tried to find out if he was in his.
normal state was he walking normally.
did he twist his tongue when he.
talked or had he over drunk that cheap stuff.
sir I had kept back the facts from.
you lest you might be scared.
but for the past some time now.
officers have stopped staying in this bungalow.
things are very scary.
i did not show any eagerness to listen.
to bhabaprasad intently because i didnt want to give.
him any hint of my weakness.
fear or of my mental state.
but a strong desire to hear out.
the rest of his story surged up.
and the show that i put up.
like a good actor disheartened him a lot maybe.
he was not expecting such a vague and indifferent.
attitude from me.
he stopped talking and went out of.
the front door to the verandah.
i could hear the sounds his torn.
sandals made on the steps.
at what time would you like to have dinner early.
not letting him complete his enquiries he was.
making from the verandah.
i called out a bit loud from.
inside you can bring it anytime you want.
along with it bhabaprasad re entered the room.
something simple will do you can make a.
dish of mixed vegetables.
that will be fine.
i am a bit tired and would.
prefer to sleep early.
i saw the smile on bhabas face.
and got the impression that my menu would be.
very easy for him to prepare.
earlier the officers used to have frequent gorgeous.
parties here and i would make all the arrangements.
for them but there has been no such party.
taking out the matchbox from the pocket.
of his khaki trousers bhabaprasad put it on the.
table and said we have frequent power failures here.
there are two candles inside the drawer.
why are parties not held nowadays surely bhabaprasad.
was not aware that i had put the question.
to him in order to elicit more details about.
his unfinished story.
after two major incidents the officers stopped coming.
here out of fear.
what do you mean.
i was surprised when i heard from the.
ranger that you were coming.
sir had asked me not to tell.
you anything about those incidents if you didnt ask.
about them it was not that i was trying to.
unfold the mystery i wanted to know the details.
from bhabaprasad only for my own safety.
even if I had to leave now.
i could do so within half an hour in.
the rangers car but actually i ought to know.
why i felt the danger to my life and.
wanted to run away from the place.
mr gogoi was a cheerful person.
he would enjoy costly drinks with the.
ranger and go to bed only around two am.
occasionally he would come and spend two.
or three nights here.
and then one morning he suddenly died in bed.
the story of the dead man simply flowed.
out of bhabaprasads mouth without any emotion or excitement.
in his voice or any expression on his face.
i found nothing sensational about his story.
because the fact that a man could suddenly suffer.
a cardiac failure and die after drinking so much.
was known to me.
we all understood that ningni that had.
killed gogoi during the night.
the huge footprints inside the house left.
us the warning that the ghost still moves around.
in the vicinity of the village.
one month prior to gogois death.
the ghost had killed niranjan tamuli too.
in a similar fashion.
it didnt take me long to understand the.
meaning of the unseen thing bhabaprasad had talked about.
of course his ghost story could in.
no way unsettle me because such hearsay is always.
linked with old guest houses.
of course there are some here who have.
seen the ghost.
i myself have heard his footsteps.
once dharani the faith healer had brought him.
under his control.
but of late he is said to.
have broken free from dharanis shackles.
you can never tell whom ningni would.
attack he is a fiery creature with eyes.
burning like ember.
the nails on the fingers of his.
big hairy hands expand long and disabled hair.
his description of ningni the ghosts physical appearance would.
have on me whether it would bring about an.
expression of fear on my face or.
since that day no one has come.
to spend the night in this bungalow.
whoever comes here rests by the day.
and leaves before nightfall.
it is said that after breaking free.
from dharani.
the ghost has become like mad.
seeking only human blood.
before i could say something.
he said again you need not be.
so scared because the ghost normally doesnot come down.
from the hills in clear weather.
he is said to become restless only.
when the weather is cloudy.
gogoi and niranjan too were killed when.
there were thunderstorms.
although i had no idea how strong a.
thunderstorm bhabaprasad was talking about in the afternoon.
yet the fast blowing wind.
the thunderbolt forming in the sky with.
the sound of a thousand bombs and the power.
to rattle and break the doors and windows.
the blinding lightning.
the relentless raindrops as big as hailstones.
getting restless to tear apart the tin roof.
all these developments surprisingly made me anxious to consider.
all aspects and find out if the developing situation.
had anything to do with the coming of ningni.
the ghost a thud outside told me that a.
dry leaf of the coconut palm had fallen somewhere.
some tree must have got up.
the ember like bulb had in the meantime.
gone out and for a moment in the flash.
of the lightning.
i figured out where i was positioned.
i grouped my way to find the.
matchbox on the rack and forcing open the drawer.
with all my might took out a candle and lit it.
but it could be blown out any.
moment by the strong wind.
i drew my revolver from the holster.
and held it in my right hand.
ready for any eventuality.
the flame of the candle quivered in.
the wind that had crept in through the gaps.
in the doors and windows.
my excitement caused my palm that was.
in contact with the revolver to sweat.
even as the rats running about on.
the ceiling created a scary situation.
the complete picture of bhabaprasads ghost with.
dishevelled hair nails a span long.
fiery ember like eyes.
a yard long tongue sticking out like the.
tongue of goddess kali.
long legs hanging a foot above the.
ground flashed before my eyes his extended hands.
hairy like the bear pushing their way past the.
closed door his bloody tongue making hissing sounds like.
the cobra and darting out and his nails brushing.
the muscles of my neck which had in the.
meantime become hard and stiff.
a knocked at the door mommentarily kept .
the ghosts image at bay i held the revolver tighter and was.
prabals telephone rang shrilly.
hello yes i am prabal phukan speaking.
hey is that balen.
where are you calling from.
are you calling from guwahati.
when did you arrive in the usa.
you are on your way here.
you will tell everything then.
but where are you putting up.
when and how will you come here.
i have to go to receive you.
there are regular buses plying from chicago to north western.
i will wait for you.
with a beating heart from two o clock.
hey i am not joking.
i am already impatient to meet you.
oh i have not met you for so long.
really i still can't believe.
you are calling from america.
it feels like a dream.
i will hang up otherwise you will get late.
you wont be able to catch the bus.
but i feel as if i will lose you.
i put the receiver down.
the dream will come to an end.
i will wait till we meet.
putting down the receiver.
prabal stared at the phone for a long time.
indeed balen had come here to america and in five hours time.
he would be here in flesh and blood.
he still could not believe it.
he picked up the receiver again and started dialling.
hello judith this is prabal speaking.
a friend of mine has come from assam.
no not imran im not sure when imran is coming.
he is balen i have told you about him.
that boy from golaghat.
golaghat near the nambor forest.
balen is a newspaper reporter.
senior reporter of an old and reputed daily of guwahati.
the one who was noticed after an interview with.
doctor robin banerjee you remember him.
only at the mention of robin banerjee.
poor balen you have forgotten the very stairs.
which helped you to climb to the top.
anyway he is arriving here at around two.
he does not know of your existence.
unless he has heard rumours.
since we had not written to each other.
but he is a dear friend.
you know what kind of friend.
remember how we had quarrelled once.
you had tried to make amends with a.
definition of ideal friendship.
what you never make amends.
only i am the henpecked one.
to have found a gem like you.
can somebody after finding a diamond.
the diamond mines of kimberly.
in africa not be hen pecked.
anyway during that quarrel.
you had quoted plutarch line.
i do not need a friend who changes.
when i change who nods when i nod.
my shadow does that much better.
my friendship with balen fits that definition.
we indulged in endless disputes.
still we always agreed to disagree.
that's the basic of our friendship.
anyway after i spend a few hours with him.
i will take him to your place.
hope you have no other engagement.
you dont have any.
good i will hang up now you want.
the two of us to have dinner at your place.
i had already expected.
that i cannot help but confess.
darling and there he will get a second.
surprise in the course of time.
balen was safely insconced in prabals home.
prabal had enrolled in north western university.
to do his ph d in engineering about four years ago.
he had rented a room in a big house like him.
judith garfield had also arrived from south africa.
to obtain the same degree at this university.
after that this couple hailing from two under.
a developed countries had grown so close.
that they now felt it was impossible to return to their.
respective countries in asia and africa to be so.
far away from one another.
so they had made a decision.
to complete their degrees.
get married and then move to guwahati.
india judith had at first expressed.
a desire to stay on in america.
but prabal had quoted an english poet.
i am an only son.
whats to be done judith.
i am the only son of our parents.
in our families.
even today elderly parents do not usually.
but with their sons.
that is why.
i cannot leave my parents alone in their old age.
i have to go back.
I believe that.
my loving mother will welcome a girl.
like you with open arms.
deuta is a very liberal person.
and ma will be all the more happier.
when she realized.
although have married an african girl.
she is no negro.
i have not brought along a black beauty.
and listen judith.
you will be happy living in our home.
because day and night.
there will be a huge elephant.
in front of your eyes.
an elephant our favourite animal.
that you are so crazy about.
after that prabal told her about the elephant.
balen and he also discussed the elephant.
although much later on.
because the two friends were meeting after.
such a long time.
they were busy exchanging news and gossip.
prabal first asked the reason for balens.
visit to america.
the assam association of america frequently invited.
artists and literati from assam.
this time the invitation was extended to journalists too.
balen had in the meanwhile.
become a renowned journalist of assam.
his fame had spread to america.
balen had remarked self deprecatingly.
over the seven seas and thirteen rivers.
the fame of this hopeless.
one has been carried by the wind.
you know that is.
why i have got this great opportunity to visit.
you absolutely free of cost.
first i stopped at chicago.
where they had made arrangements for me to stay.
with an assamese family.
tomorrow there will be a function.
i will give news from assam.
interrupting balen prabal had said.
there are some assamese families in chicago.
actually a part of chicago is crawling.
with asian people.
but wait that means you are going away tomorrow.
yes i have to go.
i cannot roam at will.
they have brought me here.
i must conform to their plans.
somehow i have managed to sneak off.
and visit you.
i am fortunate.
i can at least spend the night with you.
prabal, i am really finding it cold here.
i had brought some warm cloth with me.
i never imagined it would be so cold here.
i have not that many dollars with me.
to buy an overcoat or something of that kind.
and fritter away my precious money.
do not worry about that.
i will give you one of my warm jackets.
i had thought about it.
even before you mentioned it.
is not it really cold here.
just close by is lake michigan.
nearby are four lakes.
erie superior ontario and huron.
icy winds also blow from there.
i have experienced zero degree temperature here.
if the temperature falls below zero degree you will die of cold.
prabal told balen about judith only.
when they were on their way to her house.
prabal realised balen had no inkling of.
the matter from the latters reaction to the news.
what happened you look like.
you have been struck by a thunderbolt.
actually in view of our surroundings.
you look as though you are frozen stiff.
otherwise judiths food will get stone cold.
at judiths home.
she too stayed in a one room apartment.
like Prabal they however had a piping hot meal.
balen had never dreamt in his wildest dreams.
that such surprises would await him in america.
he told prabal.
when i go back to assam.
my job will be to write about.
the work done by the assamese association here.
but i am becoming more impatient.
to go back and spread your news.
a white memsahib had cooked rice.
fish in mustard curry for me in his foreign land.
you had mentioned over the phone.
hearing my voice had seemed like a dream to you.
well all these incidents after meeting you.
seem like a dream to me now.
although they had a rice and curry meal.
they had coffee afterwards and they whiled away.
long hours in conversation.
prabals conversation was always amusing.
so was balens.
this was what had attracted.
the two other in the first place.
you know judith like i had told you.
the friendship between us is based on.
plutarchs definition of friendship.
but a everything has a limit .
now look at him.
even after so many years.
he could not help but come over to meet me.
when he shivered with cold.
i told him that it was his misfortune.
come to one of the worlds coldest places.
at this balen flared up saying.
only he knew about the worlds coldest place.
where a deer.
which had jumped from a mountain.
had hung suspended in mid air.
frozen due to the cold.
then i told him that was impossible.
the earths gravitational pull would force.
the deer to come down.
do you know what this argumentative fellow.
who fills pages of his newspaper with sensational nonsense.
earns accolades for that said to me.
that in that cold.
even the earths gravitational pull had frozen.
at this judith was convulsed with laughter.
almost upset her coffee.
controlling her laughter she said.
only a deer could have remained suspended in mid air.
but an elephant would have.
definitely fallen to the ground.
balen i have not told you one thing about judith.
she is totally obsessed about elephants.
she loves me because of it.
i dont look like an elephant.
i cannot be compared to an elephant.
on the other hand you can compare.
me to another of assams precious animals.
the rhino because I am so thick skinned.
i dont mind the fact that judith loves elephants.
more than me.
oh listen when judith thinks about her native.
africa the first thing that comes to her mind.
he loves them a lot.
when she saw a tv report revealed.
how poachers slaughtered elephants for their tusks.
and were forcing them towards extinction.
she became teary eyed.
how many dead elephants the tv had showed.
the main reason for her attraction.
towards me was.
i too hailed from a country that had elephants.
when i told her.
from our house in guwahati.
she would see an elephant day and night.
her joy knew no bounds.
even though she knew it wasnt a real elephant.
dont you understand.
when we look towards.
the south from our house doesnt.
the entire kalapahar hill resemble a.
standing elephant touching the sky.
in the hope of seeing that sight.
judith has spared no effort to learn assamese.
besides learning assamese culture and language.
she has immediately consented to go to guwahati.
and be my life partner.
after letting prabal ramble on for a while.
judith quipped in.
it is i who have a rhino skin.
not your friend otherwise after hearing about.
all the misinformation he has spread about me.
why am i still continuing this relationship.
lets stop this nonsense.
we are meeting.
you for such a short while.
we must not waste time on such trivial.
mr dutta i have heard.
you are a renowned reporter.
and that a wonderful interview with dr robin banerjee.
prompted the editor to give you a job.
as a reporter you must have travelled.
all over assam and collected a lot of information.
the man wanted to express his condolence.
the elephants at their being ruthlessly slaughtered.
there really are crazy people in this world.
prabal joined in the laughter.
then he said judith.
it is i late we should be going.
judith rose and said.
Oh you will find it very cold outside.
can you see how the snowflakes are falling.
before going have some more coffee.
mr dutta do you have enough.
warm clothes to face the cold.
you dont realize it.
because of the central heating.
but outside it is really cold.
see how the snowflakes are falling.
balen smiled and said.
prabal has given me his bulky jacket.
i was wearing it when i came in.
you probably did not notice.
i was looking almost like an elephant.
after that he rose and watched.
the snow covered landscape through the window.
this was a novel sight for him.
judith switched on the electric kettle and started setting.
the coffee cups on a tray.
prabal however did not get up.
lifting his legs onto the table.
in front of watching the scene outside.
through the window.
he began to hum the jim reeves number.
snowflakes my pretty little snowflakes.
you got me warm as a fire with a burning desire.
but although all the three were immersed in.
their own private worlds.
in each ones minds eye.
there dangled an elephant.
a year later prabal married judith.
and brought her to guwahati.
like he had promised to do.
he directed her gaze towards the kalapahar elephant.
but was astonished by the spectacle.
he now saw who had done.
this to the elephant.
for a moment he lost all sense of time and space.
judith stood beside him.
and with fearful eyes.
he could only stare from their verandah.
at the vast elephant a mutilated body.
the tv tower like a giant spear piercing it.
as if some demonic viswakarma had gauged out pieces from here.
placed some ugly boxlike houses on him.
as a result of which the bluish green beauty.
yester years was gone forever.
so modern mechanized.
science was not confined to america.
but had spread out its tentacles.
to even far off assam.
assailed by some unknown fear.
he clutched judiths hand tightly.
the newspaper was bringing out in serial form.
brief accounts of the lives of a class.
people engaged in diligent labour.
earning low incomes.
gatekeepers of cinema halls the chanawalla.
so you must obviously have some news about assams.
wild life i dont know why but.
i have always been attracted to elephants.
ever since i was a child.
in spite of all the nonsense.
prabal uttered about me.
he was right in this matter.
that is why besides my own country.
i am very interested in.
knowing about elephants from assam and india.
i pester prabal with questions.
how can he speak.
i about the present situation regarding elephants.
prabal spoke up again.
since i cannot speak about the present situation.
i tell her elephant stories from the past.
the story of airabaat the elephant of god.
indra who raided the old mans garden.
and stole cabbage from the old couple.
who went to heaven clutching on the elephants tail.
the story of the transplanted elephant head of lord ganesh.
a story of organ transplant.
i have told judith all these stories.
and legends concerning elephants.
she even knows the assamese nursery rhyme.
by heart.
she even knows about the film.
hathi mere saathi.
and you know what balen.
we shall honeymoon in kaziranga.
they still have elephant rides.
in the forests to see rhinos at kaziranga.
or have the poachers butchered all the rhinos.
with government connivance.
if that has happened.
our whole plan will be ruined.
you know balen.
when i was in india.
i heard of a hindi movie.
named honeymoon in honolulu.
our honeymoon could be phrased as.
honeymoon on hatis howdah.
this time judith cried out.
for gods sake.
prabal stop your banter.
i want to know.
so much about the elephants from your friend.
Dont worry Miss Garfield.
i shall tell you everything.
i know about the elephants.
but before that.
let me pour some cold water over your.
and prabals honeymoon.
i had once come across.
an article in our paper.
which had quoted aldous huxley.
terming elephants as chronic earthquakes so honeymooning.
on elephant back would mean a constant earthquake.
and an immediate fall causing injuries.
i call you judith when you go to assam.
we will become firm friends.
how fortunate i am judith.
completely forget this fellows existence.
but for all the banter.
prabal knows a lot about the elephants.
because when he was in assam.
some happening had occurred.
perhaps he has told you about it.
about elephants stopping cars searching for food.
so you know about it.
at first people found their behaviour strange.
and were amused.
but it was not an isolated case.
it has been seen.
in kaziranga and nambor forests.
numerous elephants had come out of.
the deep forests to stop cars and demand food.
some days back.
in one of our dailies.
a very wellresearched and lengthy article had come.
out with the title elephant with a begging bowl.
but actually the incident happened.
deforestation has been continuing for a long time.
the corrupt forest officers abetted by the.
governments liberal attitude.
or cooperation have completely denuded assams.
thick forest cover.
moreover infiltrators have entered the deepest jungles.
and depleted the heart of the jungles.
one hardly realises as.
one enters the jungles that deep inside.
it is not the wild animals.
but the infiltrators who are reigning supreme.
as a result elephants deprived of the.
vegetation that supplies them food are forced to come.
out and approach humans with begging bowls.
see how we have reduced their massive.
noble animal to such a pitiable.
impoverished condition.
prabal now said in a sober tone.
i dont know where i read it.
i heard on the bbc news.
elephants are going on a rampage.
and many people have been killed in assam.
for some time.
there has been a rampage by wild elephants.
but this has been result.
the destruction of the forests.
the poor creatures where would they live.
what would they eat.
as a result they have been destroying.
peoples homes trampling people to death.
or goring them with their tusks.
and looting all foodstuffs.
but as i have said what alternative.
do they have to survive.
sometime back i had gone to bhalukpung.
i got there now and then this time.
i was totally dismayed.
the Government does not take any steps.
the people do not become.
aware of the environment.
one day the forests will be completely destroyed.
and the atrocities by the elephants will increase.
then what will the government do.
kill the elephants at random.
a shiver seemed to run down judiths body.
elephants are dying in our land too.
in africa it is not a new thing.
to hear the elephants being killed by their tusks.
but now the incidents have increased drastically.
you know why.
there have been internecine clashes.
between the various tribes.
for which everybody needs weapons.
but from where do the people.
this underdeveloped region get weapons.
therefore there has been a large.
scale massacre of elephants.
after selling the tusks.
they are using the money to procure arms.
judiths face was full of sorrow.
now balen tried to lighten up the atmosphere.
by saying being a journalist gives.
one a lot of experiences.
that day our editor had read something out to us.
a press release that a man had.
sent to our paper.
you know what it was about.
an empty cinema hall has appeared.
the story of his major grievance.
he had never been able to see the begining.
end half of most of the pictures had been published.
with the tin of chana hanging from his shoulder.
the photo of ram prasad has been featured.
an interesting account that he children.
are not at all keen about chana.
an description of night chowkidar krishnas life.
who lived with his wife in house.
three miles away from the office.
their fanciful adjustment in considering.
the day as night and night as day.
had also been published.
an assessment of the satisfaction.
tailor niranjan derives on seeing the smiling.
the night chowkidar tailor boy at the stall.
the handyman of a bus.
all such folks were to be presented at heroes.
the serialised compositions.
the owner of the newspaper and the editor wanted.
there should be some measure of discussion.
the lower class of people in society.
who remain in the background.
the reading public ought to be introduced.
their means of livelihood.
a picture of their joys and sorrows.
tears and laughter of this class.
ought to be presented to the common man.
this particular column had become very popular.
a photo of gate keeper horeswar standing.
on a bright afternoon in front of the open doors.
young girls wearing the blouses.
he had stitched as they walk past his shop.
also been made in the column.
the account that rajen the hotel boy.
who always had an upset stomach.
whenever he drank more than two cups of tea.
even found expression.
an attempt had been made to psychologically.
analyse the peculiar behaviour of nurul the handyman.
who loved to hang from the door of the bus.
even though there were many vacant seats inside.
this column has really gained in popularity.
in the last issue it had been announced.
the forthcoming issue press compositor jadav das.
jadav das works in the press of a newspaper.
the forthcoming issue press compositor jadav das.
when the draft of this topic.
came out from the editors cubicle.
there was almost a amidst the seventeen compositors.
many of them cried out.
jadav will have to treat them to tea.
a full page on jadav das.
along with a photograph.
would be featured on page fifteen.
this line be composed using forty sixth point.
the people were quite happy about it.
jadav deserved this honour.
though he had only recently joined this press.
he was a very old and experienced compositor.
working till morning with the light.
in his left hand and forceps in his right hand.
climbing on top of the machine.
making corrections till the last moment.
jadav das was popular and amiable.
he was the first secretary of the union workers.
the press established this year.
jadavs mind was filled with a mild excitement.
he had composed many topics.
many a tale had passed through his fingers.
but his name had never appeared in printed letters.
this time there will be a whole page on him.
what would be written.
the paper is published on sunday.
a photographer of organisation arrived at jadavs house.
a photograph of jadav could have snapped.
the premises of the press.
the editor wanted that a family photograph of jadav das.
the cameraman told jadav to be ready.
before he arrived.
there was not much that jadav needed.
to get ready but his wife had been busy.
the children preparing for the photograph.
she dressed up her children very carefully.
whatever clothes they possessed.
trying to make them as presentable as possible.
she applied oil on their hair.
rubbed her oily palms on their faces.
arms and the portion below their knees.
now do not run around she warned the children.
she turned her attention to herself.
she was worried.
he children would spoil their clothes.
as they skipped and ran about.
she had been longing for a photograph.
her husband and children for a long time.
began to get ready.
this photo would appear in the newspaper.
lakhs and lakhs would see it.
the womans heart seemed to beat very fast.
an assistant editor summoned jadav.
his cubicle and asked a lot of things about his life.
on friday jadav saw a copy of the photograph.
the photo came out very well.
this was indeed something that he had gained.
he personally could never have been able.
make arrangements for such a photograph.
the block had already been prepared.
jadav asked and took the copy of the photo.
on saturday the draft of the introduction.
jadavs life came out from the editors cubicle.
it was decided by all the compositors.
jadav be allowed to compose the writeup on his life.
a little chiily jadav began to work on it.
before looking for the letters in.
the cases he once read the whole writeup.
he was very eager to know.
what was written about him.
in his enthusiasm he finished reading.
the whole page within a very short time.
but the moment he finished read.
his face became grave and solemn.
remaining motionless for some time.
he began to work on the writeup.
picking up the letters one by one.
he began to compose the details.
his own life that had been written.
by some other person.
the precise time he took to prepare.
every word kept him engrossed in his thoughts.
the same period one by one.
each of the sentences passed through his fingers.
each of the sentences pierced him like a pinprick.
gradually he began to feel very uneasy.
disturbed and frustrated and towards midnight.
when he finished composing last paragraph.
he was becoming angry.
why write a pack of lies.
many articles about eminent people had passed.
how much truth was there in all.
how much lies he did not have.
the means to find out at that time.
but something that was to be published.
about his own life.
which was very untrue.
after passing through his own fingers.
something that he would not tolerate.
when the last part of the proof came.
out from the editors cubicle for correction.
jadav became very restless.
he was an expert compositor.
there were almost no mistakes in the proof.
barring a few anomalies in semicolons and commas.
the last block was inserted into the machine.
on the last night.
on saturday the late nights duty fell on jadav alone.
he got a break of two hours for dinner.
tonight at midnight.
before compili the last block.
jadav took up some letters in his left hand.
the forceps in his right and approached the block.
he would make a real corrections now.
if such lies were to be published.
many expert compositors like him would be maligned.
it had already been stated in the life story.
jadav is a skilled and straightforward compositor.
in one place it said working throughout the night.
jadav would come back to the press.
the next morning with a smile.
jadav replaced the word smile within sullen.
it was written below the photo.
jadav das happy family.
with his wife two sons and a daughter.
jadav changed the word happy to sad.
with the little income earned.
jadavs wife was always contented.
jadav turned contented to discontented.
jadav das believed from his long experience.
one day there would open a new path before him.
jadav changed the new path to dead end.
after the days work.
jadav derived much peace on seeing his children.
he changed the word peace to torment.
making all corrections.
jadav das stuffed all the papers.
the first proof into his pocket.
he would take them home and set fire to them.
and a bag of ten kilograms of rice on his two wheeler.
as the mazumdars made a hullabaloo on sing.
he said with a meeks smile.
no no i am not having any trouble while doing this only.
you must be having trouble you have come to a new place.
so many types of difficulties you might be facing you are our guests.
it is our duty to take care of your troubles.
in the period of the mazumdar families stay in delhi.
the bhagat family performed their duties to these assamese mehmans in many other ways.
jatin mazumdar once said in his mind.
mister bhagat even if we would not have got the warmth of your .
the many other displays of the warmth by all of you would have kept us warm for ever.
from delhi ramen was transferred to guwahati.
this time ramen had tried for their transfer.
the father had already become quite old.
how many times should he be carrying his old frame from here to there.
the last period of his life was coming near.
during this time his mind must be longing for his own home own friends and relatives.
jatin mazumdar had never mentioned to his son any such .
but ramen knew the attachment that his father had to his home state.
for the last ten years wherever they might be staying.
jatin mazumdar had kept the emotional connection with assam intact.
ramen told his wife that his father read so many newspapers and magazines from assam.
even the people staying in assam probably did not do so.
the other day father even sent a letter.
to congratulating a journalist who regularly writes reports in a weekly.
you deserve to be congratulated for the report on the bengali school of nagaon.
that you have rightly written despite being a bengali yourself.
for a journalist this impartiality is very important he wrote.
ramen smiled even sitting in jaipur.
father kept himself aware about the illegal occupation.
the land belonging to the tribal belts by some non tribals.
a few months after ramen got transferred to guwahati jatin mazumdar died of old age.
the soul of the old man was enclosed in his cage.
till now just to be freed at his own place.
why when in the last year his father became extremely ill in delhi.
ramen did say that he was afraid of losing his father.
after the funeral was over.
one day while trying to rearrange the earthly belongings of his father.
ramen was doing to open the vip brand suitcase.
that he had bought for his father several years ago.
just then he happened to look at the card hanging from it.
he remembered that there his father had carefully written his address in guwahati.
taking the card in his hand.
ramen slowly read the blurred letters inside the plastic cover.
being somewhat astonished ramen turned the card back.
there also the address jatin mazumdar gandhibasti guwahati three assam.
he was not written with the nice intact english handwriting of his father.
there too was written jatin mazumdar india.
taking the card in his hand ramen sat motionless.
his eyes got filled with tears.
every morning gauri pehi rose at dawn and rushed through her routine work.
getting up she would sweep the house the countryward take a hurried bath.
then enter the kitchen after taking bath.
she would keep mumbling to herself as she fried fritters for breakfast.
after everybody had finished breakfast.
gauri pehi would start her second phase of work chopping vegetables or cleaning fish.
sometimes she would sit for a while and rebuke somebody.
a times she would cry and sometimes laugh.
after everybody in the house had started with their daily chores.
she would sit under the garmusa tree.
till she got her call for lunch.
it was not always like that.
when pehis mother was alive she hardly had any time to rest.
her mother was bed ridden for years.
bedsores covered her body.
pehis time passed nursing her mother.
now after her death she had these few hours for herself.
all the fifty years of her life.
pehi had spent shunting between the kitchen the country yard and the garmusa tree.
that such a day would come to her life was beyond imagination.
the lie and dark crevices of her mind were in utter confusion.
there pehi was sitting on her haunches.
today was altogether a different day for pehi.
since morning she had not entered the kitchen.
her breakfast was brought to her bedside.
they gave her warm water to bath in the bathroom.
her sister in law made her bed.
her brother came to enquire about her meals.
this undue importance seemed intolerably intriguing and confused gauri pehi.
pehi was sitting on the bed.
lifting her mekhela her hand touched the tiny white spot on her thigh.
for fifty long years the spot had been in the same place.
she shuddered pictures started racing before her minds eye.
she was then a girl with long lustrous black tresses.
pehi saw herself as a bride.
a stout man was dragging her from the room to the country ward.
the bride pulling her sador to cover her head.
her teeth gritted to regulate her sobs.
the man left her sprawling on the country ward.
he roared like a lion.
they have cheated me into marrying this diseased woman.
a few neighbourhood women came to watch the scene.
the man tried to raise the womans mekhela to show the cause of his anger.
but the bride pulled it down with all her might.
a middle aged man strode to her and grasping her long hair shook it vigorously.
this witch she has come to ruin my sons life.
she slowly lifted her mekhela.
now the pea like spot was clearly visible in the sun.
everybody shouted in unison come on send her away.
go and leave her at her fathers place.
dont let her take anything.
keep all the ornaments we gave her for her joron.
she cried helplessly.
the man now dragged her outside the gate.
ma has she taken her bath.
outside pehi heard the manly voice.
her brothers wife came in.
gauri what are you doing.
gautam has already taken out the car.
and you are still not ready.
her younger brothers wife gave her a new pat mekhela and a sador with a border.
you need not wear that dress.
her elder sister in law handed her an ivory box.
ma had left your ornaments.
you can take them with you.
pehi wear your light gold chain.
you will be going with your son in his red maruti.
you should at least wear something on your neck.
she had come from her in laws to bid farewell to pehi.
pehi stepped out of her room towards the well but her sister in law stopped her.
i have put warm water in the bathroom.
pehi lifted her to say something.
before marriage she bathed in the bathroom.
but after her return they had stopped her from doing so.
they had written her off as a mad person.
mad woman god only knows what she would do in the bathroom.
pehi poured a mug water.
then taking the fragrant white cake of bathing soap she hesitated.
as if the touch of water inflamed the pea sized white mark.
pehi again emerged as the new bride.
the beautiful girl with the bright golden yellow complexion.
five times they had chased her away and five times she had been sent back.
the fifth time she took with her a fair baby boy.
again they sent her back keeping the baby.
she did not want to leave behind her baby.
locking up the baby in the room her mother in law spattered filthy words at her.
they tied her with a rope and put her on the back of a bullock cart.
the nineteen year old nursing mother implored begged.
cried out her heart but to no avail.
her plight made even the cart driver shed tears.
she made a vain effort to loosen the rope she bled.
pehi came out of the bathroom.
the whole neighbourhood was there especially the womenfolk.
someone combed her partly grey hair and made her wear.
pehi sat among them like a stone statue.
they did not see her retreating to her past.
fate had indeed dealt a heavy blow on her.
she yearned for her little one.
when people from her husbands place came she sent word through them.
if he marries again will he give me back my son.
throughout she saw her sister in law bearing and rearing children.
for years and she became a mad woman.
she started mumbling to herself sometimes laughing.
sometimes crying sometimes shouting at others.
yet nobody came with the news of her son.
her sisters in law and her niece were packing for her.
how can she go in one dress what will a mad woman.
pehis elder sister in law stopped short.
when she saw the handsome man watching them.
ma are you ready lets go then.
we have a long way to go.
pehi stared at the young man.
the sight flashed before her minds eye.
who would say that the handsome bespectacled man was her son.
pehi sat still someone was trying her hair into a neat bun.
who would say that the handsome bespectacled man was her son.
pehi sat still someone was tying her hair into a neat bun.
pehi felt some unknown hand was rubbing away the vermilion.
from the parting of her hair taking out her bangles and dressing her in a white garb.
how many years had passed by.
pehis luggage was loaded in her sons car.
the womenfolk sat surrounding her romola jethai remarked.
its gauris sheer luck that she can die at her husbands place.
now they were talking about her son.
how handsome gauris son is like a prince.
not only that he is also a famous doctor.
poor thing had to grow up tortured by a step mother.
somebody wanted to force pehi into the car.
she forced her way out of the car.
i wonder whether i am doing the right thing taking her away.
all these years she had stayed with you the last days of her life.
pehis sister in law came forward.
she is fortunate.
at least she would die staying with you.
all these years we have kept her.
pehis two younger brothers were standing next to each other.
a stench touched their nostrils.
the smell of their mothers bed sores.
the mad gauri had nursed her.
suddenly everybody grew excited to put pehi inside the car.
pehi wailed she sobbed she did not want to go.
the picture of a bullock cart floated before her eyes.
the cart driver standing with a pair of white and black bullocks.
the shrill cry of the baby the nineteen year old girl tied with a rope and left in the cart.
a strong hand held her pinioned to the cart pehi making a vain effort to set herself free.
the soothing security of the garmosa beckoned her.
it stood like a beam of light in her otherwise dark world.
she cried out shrilly.
the handsome young man looked at the old woman on the rear seat.
pehis father had bought a plot of the land in her name right in the middle of guwahati.
the thought brought some sort of solace to his mind.
only a thumb impression and then a house a chamber and a nursing home in future.
the car started moving pehi was wailing now.
in her subconscious she heard the cry of a baby.
the young man looked again.
now would namita put up with her.
even if she did what will people say.
it is alright something should be done.
he had already told his uncle that his mother needed treatment.
he would send her to a mental asylum.
who would blame him she should be treated.
the waiting women near the gate let out an uruli.
we were proud student of rajaji technical university madhabgarh.
i was a boarder of rajaji ladies hostel aka princess charming hostel.
the centre of attraction of that sleepy little town of madhabgarh.
me moushumi lucky and rezina were best of the friends.
we all had the best of our life out there at princes charming hostel.
we bunked classes and went for cinema shopping or for ice cream.
as poor rezina gave our proxy.
moushumi and prashant used to date even after the visiting hour in the woodland.
bunch of eucalyptus in front our hostel.
as it had the romantic shade for the couples.
luckyy sang us songs playing her hawaiian guitar till late hours.
until warden madam came and scold us.
i used to cook chinese dishes in our parties.
even though neither non veg food nor electric heaters were allowed inside hostel.
and we used to sleep discussing about the boys who were encircling.
girls minds like an electron around the nucleus.
cathy used to be disturbed.
that night after a day of hectic activity.
i had to attend the mechanics practical.
so we could bunk only the doctor thakurs lecture.
equally frantic night as rezina won the pillow fighting competition.
she become miss pilloween me and lucky my room mate .
the prospect latest that was encircling .
suddenly there was some noise from the bathroom side.
did suranjana introduced me to you.
they are bothered only about themselves and behave as if we dont exist.
let me introduce myself i am sanjay.
was suranjana telling you a story.
i am going to add to what she is telling you.
so that you have a better understanding of the events followed after that incident.
i was also a proud student of rajaji technical university.
me partha dipkushal we ruled over madhabgrah in our own way.
not like saritesh and sudhansu who were busy.
they were giving opinionated color to all that incidents inside campus.
neither like animesh anup or other high profile students.
or like akhilesh whose mind body heart and soul were to have a nice friend.
we called ourselves non align movement.
neither political nor high profile nor ambitious and we hated all kind of groupism.
we had a descentsa group boozing out at night.
fighting with the amity college folks.
each one of them used to be one bombshell.
there were a lot of myth regarding their activity among the town folks.
the story has not started yet and already you have started yawning.
you dont like repetitive kind of story telling in these days of audio visual electronic world.
me and suranjana will tell you the story friendly way.
as much as possible to suite your reading style.
remember these colour codes as you read the story.
why you sit idle it is better to have some mental exercise while .
if you managed to complete reading off course.
we were busy in a game of cards some people shouted wake up wake up.
catastrophe in the girls hostel.
we ran towards with whatever was there hokey stick twin sticks wooden stick bulb.
to bash somebody up in our sleeping pairs.
even aparup the dilton of our class carried his thirty five kg skeletal remnant.
girls seemed terrorized few of them are crying.
few explaining to the people gathered hostel super warden gang of boys.
with their indigenous weapons situation looked real tense.
group discussion every where what actually happened.
general body meeting at late night.
lucky giving the statement on behalf of .
some people entered the hostel when one girl saw them she shouted.
the decision taken culprit should be caught.
steps should be taken that such situation does not arise .
no one should ask what actually happened.
who is the victim from the lesson learnt from last incident.
it seems people are interested to know what actually happened.
than to find and taking steps so that such incidents dont recur in future.
the decision was taken in our hostel meeting.
no one will reveal the same of the girls .
last year also similar thing happened though outside the campus.
one of our girls was molested in a night bus.
the case was in our favor at first.
but that son of a gun turned out to be a political.
after few days people and media started discussing.
all possible nonsense like the skirt she was wearing.
her past love life and all and all today it is only the girls name which people remembers.
so this time we will not idle we will take all measures.
so that culprits are caught and authority takes strong steps to prevent such incidents.
we have given all the information needed to the police.
one ladies hostel situated in that far off corner.
such a premier institution without any security.
The frog with its intestines flattened under the wheel of a rickshaw.
the planes that vroomed overhead.
the innumerable insects that swarm around me.
the sound of rain falling.
the umbrella is in my hand.
ready to be switched on against a sudden gush of wind.
the fading yellow beam from the torchlight.
the road swallowed by the two hour long load shedding.
the irritating noise from a generator is some roadside shops.
these have been with me for the last fifteen minutes.
these passing things entered my mind.
my footsteps were slower than those passed me on the road.
the sudden flash of car lights led me.
to lower the umbrella against it.
where do you go at this hour.
against quickly to avoid it.
just now a maruti car sped past me.
it splattered some mud water upon my brown trousers.
before i could swear and call that driver.
he had gone a hundred yards ahead of me.
and then i realised quite sheepishly.
there was no decent man near me.
the rain has stopped the umbrella was still held above my head.
i meditated upon one thing.
how easily man becomes a slave .
i had passed this road several times before during my school days.
i could not see any remarkable change in it.
a few houses have sprouted like mushrooms here and there.
those of old ancestral houses have been sidelined by these huge.
i have accepted these changes in this area.
where will be the charm of an altered world.
i do not pass this road every day.
sometimes i pass it quickly by car.
so i do not notice much of these altered things.
though i have been away from it following the call of service.
yet i have never quite forgotten it.
i come home and spend quiet hours indoors with my wife and son.
i do not bother to venture outside upon these familiar sites.
bipul had done his schooling from this village.
he had travelled here and there with us.
there was a constant fear in me that he would spoil studies.
so i decided to keep him here until his college days are over.
the college he reads in is well known i too had studied there.
once a car passed by me at high speed i stood aside.
some more mud water again got splattered upon my trousers.
i took a right turn involuntarily.
what a strange thing is memory.
when i had stepped out of home.
i had my fixed destination and i had tried not to upset it.
i suppressed a strong urged to sit upon that bench in tanurams shop.
i might meet some old friends there i fear it.
the shop looks a little different than before.
it is adorned with many attractive things.
that must be tanurams son he will not know me.
two candles were lit inside the shop.
i bought a packet of cigarette and lit one carefully.
here i had puffed cigarettes secretly.
i had chatted with soumen and bhadra.
while sitting on a broken bamboo bench.
we had then exhausted all topics from films drama.
when that noise of a closing shutter told us that it was time to leave.
we would not leave from this broken bamboo bench.
some young boys may come to chat with him.
about twenty yards away from the shop the bridge begins.
there is a preparation to replace the wooden one with a concrete bridge.
the rain drops clattered upon the raised tin sheet of the shop.
i tried to concentrate on that last puff from the cigarette butt.
the bridge has been like this for many years.
the timber begins to rot angry murmurs rise in many homes.
for a few days a signboard comes up prohibiting the passing of heavy vehicles.
a contractor will come suddenly with a new commitment.
his work will go on for sometime.
it will be left half done because of this shortage of funds.
a minister will be gheraoed by the local men.
a small fund is sometimes released for it.
life carries on across that makeshift bamboo bridge.
by the side of that unfinished bridge.
this is a very regular thing in india.
this is a bitter to those students who live on the other side of the river.
the town people know that the bridge is the only reason.
why the local college could not progress well so far.
for the last three decades things have moved like this.
this river has divided the town in two .
it has created some division in some minds straining relationships between them.
on the wet grass it hissed and went out.
i walked out of the shop past that signboard road closed.
i tried to read that how certain things do not change with time.
i walked down the narrow road and reached that makeshift bamboo bridge.
in that crackling noise some memories returned to me.
the stream below me is just the same I can feel it.
i awake suddenly to take sound of a bicycle bell.
i leaned against the bamboo railing and let it pass the bicycle rolled over it.
carefully a few men with shopping bags passed me quickly.
maybe i would meet bipul here somewhere.
he must give up walking out in the rain without an umbrella and a torchlight.
he would sit for an examination soon.
his mother was not too pleased when i had set out in search of him.
his friends might tease him because of it then he would be angry with me.
i did not listen to such lame excuses.
i would find him chatting with some friends somewhere this way.
it should not be a shameless thing that on a dark stormy night.
a father was looking out for his only son.
i must wait here for bipul.
the tent house was closed.
a herd of cattle took shelter in that verandah.
i know i will recognise bipul by his familiar gait.
i will know his footsteps even in the darkness.
there was milirams tea shop here.
we used to chat and have tea after an evening of gossiping near the bridge.
this was a good place for gossiping near the bridge.
gayatri had told me about her decision to go to a city college.
while sitting in that number two cabin room in that tea shop.
she had explained that her father could not wait till the bridge was built.
her father did not take it easily that she should struggle so much to study.
she wanted to know my whole history.
her husband die two years ago.
she is now living with her father here.
she has joined as a teacher in the new high school.
she is beautiful like before she was.
the smile that catches her in mid sentence.
was she like this then i tried to remember the incident.
is she still angry with me.
how does she hide her anger at our forsaken dream.
i did not know anything about them.
i was only telling her i will come again.
now we can meet easily whenever i come to this town.
i will visit you too gayatri was saying.
do come when you can i wil try to meet you and some such things.
as i rose to go gayatri pointed toward here daughter in the next room.
is not she like me she declared proudly.
i could see through the drawn curtain gayatris daughters face.
she was busy talking to a young boy in a red striped shirt.
their intimate conversation took me back many years.
those evenings i and gayatri had shared .
namita is sweet i told gayatri to open the gate.
beyond this had the bridge been built.
gayatri and i would not remained on these two separate river banks.
if she did not join a city college.
before two years to her final examination she would be ruined.
i had tried to measure in what gayatri how much sincerity was there.
in our intimate conversation in that small garden behind the college library.
i had seen her tears and realised that she was not taking it too easily.
according to her i was precious.
still i had said nothing it is true it was not fair.
she should suffer so much to attend college from this town.
like what her father had said.
she must go to that city college stay in a hostel.
this distance would not make any difference to us.
nothing had changed much after that as i had left her.
college university service marriage everything happened like definite systematic incidents.
i had not seen her in these last thirty years.
i have heard that gayatri was to a professor.
and i did not hear much about her.
the demands of a family and a job gayatri became immartial to me.
i left the verandah and walked towards the gate of gayatris house.
i saw that everything was same.
time has stood still has anyone seen me.
i reached the verandah in the thin candlelight.
i could see that woman dear .
this is gayatri age has made her more charming would she recongise me.
gayatri asked me have i been doing these last two many years.
i knew gayatri will keep on looking at me.
until i disappeared beyond the street corner.
she would then close the gate lightly.
she would stumble upon that floor of memories.
i was walking with a new sensation.
i was thinking about bipul about bringing him home.
the loadshedding would be over soon.
i must reach home before the street lights lit up the road.
i walked quickly across that makeshift bamboo bridge.
i let the man walking behind pass me bipul i called out he halted.
i threw the beam of the torchlight at him.
his red striped shirt looked beautiful in that flickering light.
i could set that he has a young sturdy face.
he came under the umbrella and walked across that bamboo bridge.
he was still thinking of namita and some thoughts rose in me too.
young boys like you should approach a minister and build that bridge soon.
suddenly the words left my lips.
the bridge is so vital to them to their relationship.
perhaps there is nothing strange nothing strange about the way.
i have cursed under my breath.
my situation has been reduced to such a precarious one.
no longer possible for me to sing or chant mantras.
mean while through the sudden rain and storm.
i have cleverly placed myself beneath the umbrella.
like circle shed of the traffic point.
this must surely be indicative of my far sightness.
i had not paused here for a while.
i would have been mercilessly drenched on the long refugeless road.
there is nothing wrong in saying this timely action .
it is after all wisdom.
the blowing the croaking here and there.
the dying sound of the thunder these are my companions .
at a little distance away from me it is skinny mongrel.
for it i must be an unwelcome intruder.
its terrified eyes have been trying to convey that my entry.
its occasional shelter turned domain has brought about an unknown fear in it.
the fear of being ousted from its own territory.
i need to pull apart of darkness and peer at that part of me.
where the shoe has been hurting me for long.
a thorn has found place without my knowledge.
i cannot forget its existence and there is little hope of relief.
as my searching eyes have so far failed .
i can now barely see my fingers the sole of my foot.
a while ago the houses the entire area had been flooded in light.
the brisk human activities uniformed man standing.
under the shed immensely busy.
the clamour the mad rush of the people could no longer be felt.
the weary town has fallen into a deep slumber.
the storm has taken its toll on the powerful transformer.
there is now only darkness terrifying darkness everywhere.
there is no need to despair at the endless natural calamities around me.
i at once put a road close signpost so as to divert the direction of my mind.
there is an affinity with the road that lies to the left of where i sit now.
this is the way that leads me to and from my working place.
perhaps had this way not led to the company.
where am i presently employed for .
i had not been selected from among the score of men aimlessly moving around.
i could have been ask to vacate my rented room.
including the certificates earned in college and university.
and finally return to the village.
i could have to wind up that chapter of my life.
when i had engraved my day to day experience.
and leave behind my friends residing in the long line of rented rooms.
these pages of my life also speak to the beginning.
and the end of my relationship with anupama.
they also remind me nandan and prakash.
leaving me behind to languish in this god forsaken place.
all these experience must surely be associated with the road.
that lies to my left where a couple of days back.
i suddenly come across anupama after long time.
do you remember that river burdened with the stinking.
murky water through which flows the entire citys waste pollutants and hemical effluents.
what was the name of the red flower that was floating .
was it oleander or hibiscus no it was a bunch of gulmohar.
anupama peered through her gold rimmed spectacles and gave a very definitive reply.
look at the disparity the sanctity of the gulmohar over the defiled water.
rajib had not got up from bed .
if he wasnot shaken .
therefore among minas chores of the morning.
dragging a husband out of sleep was para mount.
it was no mean task.
because rajib really resisted waking up.
as if he was still a school boy.
mina his mother was waiting.
the child had to be waken up.
his breakfast made ready.
he would have to be goaded to leave the house.
he had to be dispatched to this early school.
his tiffin packed up.
for a school boy didnot she have to worry.
do things exactly like this.
why dont you get up.
its already seven when are you going to office.
rajib worked in a central government office.
in delhi his house was an hour away.
the place where his office was located.
in this sprawling city.
he had to get out of the house before nine.
catch the bus on time after the mornings essential activities.
he simply had to get up at seven.
yet rajib was immensely lethargic.
in the matter of getting up early.
mina had to wake up rajib.
she would wake up school going children.
jaguas mother who lived nearby.
didnot have to shove her son awake.
jagua was about five or six years old.
he was not of an age to start labourer.
there was no school in the village.
consequently there was no compulsion to get up early.
still jagua emerged from his jhuggi before the sun rose.
pushing aside a door of sack cloth.
squatted on the open space nearby to look around.
around evening or night perhaps he defecated too.
because i terrible stench rose from the place.
mina got up around the same time opened the door.
strolled out to their varandah without watching her face.
the newspaper bound up with a black rubber band.
a black rubber band was lying there in a corner.
although it was so early.
mina bent down to pick up the paper.
freeing the paper from its shackle of the rubber band.
a few red and blue pieces of paper floated out.
the newspaper where they were tucked in.
lightly landed on the floor.
at first mina used to pick up these papers.
look at their contents before she read the newspaper.
but now let alone read them.
she didnot cast a sideways glance.
red and blue papers lying on the ground.
let them lie around like that.
after some time kanchi would come and sweep them away.
it was nothing but trash.
really the people here were loaded with money.
and they knew how to earn money.
otherwise too much on private advertisements.
what a wide variety of advertisements.
found in these red and blue leaves of paper.
which mina read so avid at first.
an english medium school for small children.
it was opened at kirti nagar.
the principal was experienced educated and responsible.
the guardians should immediately enroll their children.
the school to ensure their futures.
doctor narayans coaching class for college going students.
run in house number one to the bus at saraswati vihar.
coaching here was cheap very cheap the seats limited.
so please enquire today to avoid disappointment.
thomas eye clinic was located.
the third floor of dda flats thirty four rohini marg.
he is an optician at ram manohar lohia hospital.
get your eye checked by him.
colourful trades and colourful ads.
mina had been tempted by an advertisement in such .
the address was pocket shalimar bagh.
english speaking was taught here.
mina had studied in assamese medium.
tarini charan high school from a young age.
she was married to rajib.
after passing her from handique college.
she was not bad in studies.
but she could not speak english properly.
it would not have mattered really.
the nature of rajibs job was.
such that he would have to roam all over india.
if she could not handle english language fluently.
mina had carefully preserved that particular ad.
she was too bashful to reveal her desire.
to enroll in that institution to rajib.
the businessmen hawked their trade and professions.
these colourful pieces of paper.
came to some understanding with the newspaper vendors.
the advertisement brochures were distributed in peoples homes.
when mina first arrived in delhi.
she had found these advertisement novel.
but she did not find them so any longer.
now these papers only managed to irk her a little.
they simply messed up the place.
after picking up the newspaper.
minas gaze inevitably swivelled to the nearby jhuggi.
when jagua came out from this jhuggi.
that was no larger than a coffin.
mina felt as if jagua was also squeezed tight inside.
the newspaper squeezed inside the rubber band.
like the newspaper whose rubber bond was released by mina.
he too was freed from bondage.
he emerged from the shanty and stretched his limbs.
the house that mina and her husband had taken.
it was in new delhi and was expanding in this direction.
houses were being built here all the time.
many house owners had erecd foundation for building houses.
many others had kept their houses vacant after building them.
mina realized that those houses were not lying empty.
because there were no prospective tenants.
in fact there was no dearth of tenants in delhi.
but once tenants got in.
it was difficult to dislodge them.
the house owners would not be able to move.
when they really needed a place to stay.
many of these owners were working in some distant places.
on the verge of retirement.
or were staying in delhi itself.
government quarters from where their offices were near.
the educational institutes for their children also near.
the sparsely locality seemed like a ghost.
town in some western movie.
even the great market complex.
the building stood like an epitome of desolation.
the picture of a ghost town.
after rajib for office.
a kind of dumb silence.
weigh down on minas breast in his bleak place.
therefore she regarded jagua.
his family living in the nearby jhuggi.
as sources of mental solace of companionship.
this family also vanished in the morning.
sometimes they came back around noon.
sometimes they did not.
after lying down after lunch .
mina pricked up her ears to.
catch the voice of jagua and his family.
instead of concentrating on the book.
even if they did not return at noon.
they arrived in the evening with great commotion.
the raveyard stillness of the ghost town.
mina and her husband had taken the house.
on lease for a year after duly paying an advance.
they had not run into bharadwaj.
whom they knew in assam.
the house owner would never have his house to them.
he would also be bharadwaj neighbour one day.
the land on which jagua.
his family had their shanty belonged to bharadwaj.
bharadwaj said that once his house loan was sanctioned.
he would start building a house on this land.
very soon their jhuggi might be torn down.
and in its place a splendid house would be constructed.
the labourers who lived in jhuggis like the one.
where jagua dwelt with his family.
mina had never seen shanties like this before.
a small structure somewhat like an eskimos igloo.
it had been put together.
bricks from here and there and layering and binding them with .
perhaps an igloo would be larger than this shanty.
mina was astonished how did jagua.
his parents brother and sister live in that tiny house.
it was jagua and his family members shrank in size.
like the genie in a bottle in an arabian tale.
in order to squeeze into their home.
the roof of plastic sheets.
torn and tattered gunny sacks seemed to further press down.
when jaguas parents pushed aside the curtain.
their only door to enter the shanty.
mina got a fleeting glimpse of the interior.
which was a source of great wonder and curiosity for her.
strange inside that there was a small cave.
a bed wrapped around with rags in one corner.
a small and battered trunk.
an aluminum kadai and a few plates.
there was also a locked and covered rusty old tin.
when mina saw flour being taken out that tin.
the families most precious possession was hoarded in that eceptacle.
otherwise there was a possibility.
in their absence some pauper push.
through that door of gunny sacks and pilfer the flour.
something of the sort had already happened in the past.
and thats why the tin was locked up.
however after observing the condition of jaguas family.
she feels even a poor thief.
they would not take the trouble to ransack their box.
they had another possession which lay right near their doorstep.
and not inside the jhuggi.
this was a chula stove.
which was lit by jaguas mother in the evening to make rotis.
once in a while she made some curries too.
otherwise their nights repast consisted only.
the flames that leaped up from the chula.
clearly displays the features of the family.
which gobbled the rotis near their jhuggi by the light of the chulas fire.
at that time semi darkness presented a prehistoric tableau to mina.
actually they were like ghosts in this ghost town.
not that mina felt any surge of pity.
when she saw the frugal meal being eaten.
it seemed as if the hot and puffed rotis would be very tasty.
mina herself failed to make such hot and puffed rotis.
despite of her best efforts.
roti and not rice was a staple diet for people in these parts.
these people were bound to be more at making rotis.
however while the hot rotis themselves were inviting.
mina felt that the entire atmosphere was so squalid.
when she really thought about one of those rotis.
this spectral lot wearing dirty rags.
a veritable hell out of the place where they dwelt.
as her gaze fell on that hell she averted her eyes.
the tiny rickety baby might be suffering from malnutrition.
and may not have enough to fed on.
it was amazing the amount of stool and urine it could evict from its body.
they must be feeding her some awful stuff.
the watery stool even stain the ground near.
although the mother cleaned up from time to time.
in the arid climate of delhi people.
normally did not have a problem of running noses.
an unending stream of mucus issued from jaguas nose.
he wiped the mucus on the acks.
hanging from their roof of plastic sheets.
aggravating the squalor of their hell.
was scattered around the jhuggi.
servants of a few neighbours also dumped garbage.
taking advantage of the unoccupied open spaces.
even the ownerless mongrel dogs capitalized on the situation.
leaving their excrement on this no mans land.
the vegetables vendors also threw away their withered.
rotten vegetables when they reached this spot.
however jaguas family didnot impose upon mina.
in any way apart from daily announcing their filthy.
in front of her eyes.
jagua occasionally came and hanging on to the iron gate.
mina reading a book or sewing on the varandahs.
at times like these mina felt a slight pity for him.
she went inside to get a biscuit for him.
one day as mina was giving jagua his biscuit.
jaguas mother also came and clutching the iron gate.
she asked mina with a smile about the state from which she came.
after mina satisfied her curiosity.
she asked the woman about the state from which she came.
they were from madhya pradesh.
after her husband died.
she also came to delhi with her two children.
hoping to eke out a livelihood here.
she also a gained a husband.
the baby was a gift from this second man in her life.
they were now engaged in the construction of the new houses.
which were being built.
she took her children along.
they purchased something near the site itself and ate.
there was no great problem.
someone was bound to run.
at least a temporary eating.
joint near these construction sites.
the four of them managed to subsist on what husband and wife earned.
however they had to save a little too.
for the times when there would not be any.
when jagua grew a little bigger.
it would be a big relief.
he could also be put to work.
how did her previous husband die.
when he went to gather bullet shells.
taking off his head and limbs.
mina was momentarily stunned by this casual revelation by jaguas mother.
a shudder passed through her body.
only a few days earlier she had read a report.
in madhya pradesh the police were given fire arms training.
some of the bullets used in this training did not explode.
sometimes met with sudden death.
when the shells exploded in their faces suddenly.
so jagua had lost his real father.
the incidents that mina had read about in the newspapers.
mina could not while away all her hours in delhi.
simply by surveying jaguas family.
she did not really see them for more than ten to fifteen minutes a day.
some days she spent roaming around the streets of delhi.
initially she could not travel alone.
if rajib did not find some time for her.
but she had become familiar with many routes and streets now.
felt no apprehension about riding in buses alone.
what apart from roaming around.
rajib went out early in the morning.
she came back around seven in the evening or even later.
he didnot always find a bus waiting conveniently for him.
was a great distance that he had to travel.
the supermarket was near rajibs office.
sometimes he was late because he dropped.
in there he do some shopping for the home.
because of all these reasons.
it was only rarely rajib could give some company.
therefore mina rode delhis buses in an almost aimless manner.
the buses hurtled along very rapidly.
the bus stops were well shaded by trees and very comfortable.
sometimes the bus travelled a long way.
mina really riding aboard delhis buses.
moreover now it was the middle of march.
and it was spring in delhi.
it was not just the pleasant weather.
which made travelling a joy.
the flowers that had burst resplendently into bloom.
everywhere in the city sore eyes.
they animated peoples hearts.
it was not only in the parks.
one could see a carnival of flowers.
it was not only in the parks.
one could see a carnival of flowers.
the hillock which was the circle.
which the radial roads led off.
it was also transformed into a carpet.
full colourful flowers by the concerned authorities.
mina gazed at the splendid display of flowers with rapt.
admiring eyes and hummed silently to herself.
because beauty chants a prayer for blooming the whole night.
the morning is chocked with flowers and flowers.
really delhis spring intoxicated mina.
the columnists who wrote the city diaries.
that appeared in delhis newspapers.
these were to ecstatic in their descriptions.
the spring and of the riot of flowers.
mina wondered whether these journalists could identify the flowers.
they named poppy pansy hollyhock carnation ornflower.
may be they could.
otherwise how could they compare a pansy to karl marx head.
mina started after rajib returned home.
my spring disappears into my office files.
enjoy your spring among colourful flowers.
what a difference of fortune.
between two creatures living in the same house.
when mina heard rajib say things like this.
jaguas families spring was spent in a far worse manner.
because it was spent among brisk sand and cement.
for the last two days jagua had .
he either lay upine inside their cave of a shanty.
sat among the rubbish in front of their home.
with a forlorn look of his face.
that he had fever thats why he had to stay at .
mina realized that indeed not well.
he had not promptly and greedily bitten the biscuit given to him.
he was sitting there clutching .
although he was not running around.
he had picked among the rubbish for pieces of papers torn rags.
discarded colour bags of potato chips and cornflower.
a toy shanty in front of their own jhuggi.
had he been really ill.
he would simply have laid down.
two days after jagua fell ill.
the day after he erected his toy shanty.
mina went to the market.
strangely enough she felt no urge to go.
she felt as if she had felt behind her ailing baby.
however she realized that she was exaggerating her feelings.
therefore she grabbed the shopping bag and walked.
she walked to the bus stand.
a swing in her steps without even looking back at the lonely jagua.
far away and it took three hours to come back.
however she could not help darting an anxious glance towards jaguas.
when she reached home.
due to the unjust machinations of her employers.
nevertheless they were wages means to a livelihood.
the mother could never sacrifice a days.
simply in order to provide her son with love and care.
that must be the way things had .
the lonely boy had got bored stiff keeping himself company.
jagua had decorated with the multi coloured brochures.
mina had disdainfully discarded.
he himself had carefully preserve.
giving the onlooker the illusion.
delhi had brilliantly deck up this hell.
mina gazed at the scene without moving for a while.
signing deeply to express her ennui.
when is the stupid garage going to give up our car.
i am really fed up.
these last few days have seemed like ages.
will we ever escape this graveyard and visit some human habitation again.
i have my doubts vandanas husband tarak listen to these laments.
puffed his in silence for sometimes.
then he said why dont you go visiting someone in the campus.
this suggestion provoked a grimace of disgust from vandana.
i have been doing these last ten days.
how many of your colleagues are marry.
i can grace their homes with my visits.
there are just four households in the entire campus with married couples.
can i keep repeating my visits to these four houses.
this time tarak was effectively.
there were only a few homes in the campus.
this engineering college had been established.
all the engineers employed in it were young men.
thus the vast was rather sparsely .
it was yet to echo to the chatter of women.
the cries of children.
tarak himself had been married for only a year.
his wife vandana was a city girl.
she had been reared in the din and bustle of a glamorous city.
she felt as if she had been planted in a graveyard.
the place was at a distance of four miles from the city.
the grounds owned by the college were immense.
the campus was fringed on its four sides by hills.
a vast pasture a metalled road that led to the city.
a dimly seen hamlet with thick groves of bamboo.
often vandana was bored to destruction.
was such a god forsaken place fit for human habitation.
she was however widely regarded as lucky.
in netting such a prize catch of a foreign.
return groom considering her modest.
she herself was quite elated.
on first hearing of the match.
with its promise of the accompanying social .
but the snobbish gratification faded out quickly.
the fellowship of human beings.
she had comforts enough in her new home.
but she missed the gaiety of the boisterious city life of her past.
did go to the city quite frequently.
tarak had a car but for some days.
now it was lying in a garage making life.
a temporary tragedy for vandana.
after that little exchange of talk.
both of them lapse into silence.
tarak lit another cigarette and vandana.
relaxing in an easy chair.
gazed at the street in front of them.
which was totally devoid of human beings.
then suddenly breaking the silence.
tarak enthusiastically proposed.
lets go to that village.
where we have been meaning to go all this time.
although not exactly animated by the proposal.
vandana had no objection.
she had often urged her husband.
accompany her to that small village on the periphery of the campus.
for the city girl a rural habitual was a novelty.
tarak himself was not averse to the idea.
but the desire was till now not translated into practice.
resolution was about to become reality.
to protect herself against the .
which had sprung up suddenly.
vandana wrapped herself up in a shawl.
no further decking up was necessary.
in front of the dressing table.
to kill the long and torpid afternoon hours.
the sharp cool breeze brought out the gose pimples on their flesh.
but at the same time the pleasing was sunshine.
the sun shine afternoon greeted them.
as they stepped out into the street.
it was the month of march.
torridity was yet to become a feature of the sun.
it is beautiful vandana commented after sometime.
are not springtime afternoons always enchanting.
the enjoyment of such evening is great.
usually barred to people like us.
we wont step down from our cars.
the woman who was complaining.
the non availability of a car.
a little while ago.
now say becoming rather poetic.
that is only too true.
if you want to drink in the beauty of nature.
you must shun your cars for a while.
how the grass we are treading is flooded.
with the crimson rays of the sun.
how these same rays have suffused.
those floating clouds with their richness of red.
and see those storks flying away into infinity.
how could we even participate in this theatre.
we remained coped up in our homes or in our cars.
we had already reached the village.
it really all that near.
vandana broke off her rhapsody rather abruptly.
find yourself already on the periphery of the village.
what made you think it was far.
this retort elicited a regretful exclamation from vandana.
so near and yet for us.
however even at that moment.
they had not actually entered the village.
they were still walking.
the bamboo lined alley.
that led to the village.
though that realm of green darkness.
created by the lofty bamboo poles.
vandana suddenly felt.
as if she had entered the wonderland.
the nightingale ode by keats.
which she had studied.
in college came flitting to her mine.
rather appropriately in that enchanted atmosphere.
at that moment she did not feel.
like sharing keats with tarak.
for a busy engineer tarak read a lot of poetry.
doubtless included keats.
but the beguiling gloom had cast.
such a spell on her that she felt.
reluctant to break it.
the strange journey through the shaded bamboo.
lined avenue did not go on forever.
they soon emerged out into the open.
confronted a small meadow.
a small and tortorous path and a cluster of mud huts.
they realized that now.
they were in the village proper.
after the bout of prolong silence.
tarak turned to his wife.
he ask with a slight smile.
a penny for your thoughts.
at this query vandana gave a small start.
she had been totally immersed.
in the poetry of green around her.
her husbands voice brought her out.
her reverie with a jolt.
everything seemed transformed.
in vandanas eyes in this village.
gourds climbing over the roof of a house.
pigeon nestling on the same roof.
a rather commonplace flower.
which seemed to proudly give off an exotic fragrance.
everything seemed to catch her fancy.
she enthusiastically commented on all.
while talking they had not ceased their ambling.
after a while they reached a spot.
where the road forked.
one of the two paths which branched off.
in different directions seemed.
overgrown with shrubbery.
the other seemed.
lead to the popular parts of the village.
tarak halted which way now.
i dont feel like meeting people.
so lets follow this smaller uptroden path.
again they entered the land of green darkness.
the narrow serpentine pathway was fringed.
its two sides by briars and a host of wild nameless plants.
but the delights that their excursion had to offer.
they had not been exhausted.
the path traversing ended abruptly.
the jungle growth and the bamboo trees.
when they emerged into a clearing.
they were suddenly greeted by the spectacle of a silvery rivulet.
behind the horizon.
still its last feeble rays.
finding here no leaves to dance on.
now trod the waves of the stream instead.
and suffused with the grace of the sunlight.
the brook also bubbled on merrily.
the counterpart of the forest.
other side of the river was a sprawling pasture.
mainly comprising a sandy bank and a paddy field.
on those sands a few wild leafy plants.
blushing scarlet with the all but extinguished rays.
the sun were swaying gently in the breeze.
a group of young women were slowly.
wending their way homeward.
after filling their pitchers with water from the river.
the wild breeze rustled the leaves.
the unknown bird intermittently cried out.
to betoken its presence.
these occasional breaks rather emphasized the solemn.
almost sepulchral afternoon silence.
vandana exclaimed suddenly how lovely.
instantly the great silence disintegrated.
all this time tarak had not vandana.
but at her rapturous cry he turned towards her.
he was startled.
a strange beauty had transfigured her face.
the sight of which somehow wrenched at his heart.
but why this pensiveness.
and was not this beauty.
he saw on her face his to savour.
a deep sigh broke from tarak.
a small voice inside him said.
while this beauty of vandana was not beyond him.
now it was transient.
this transfiguring beauty.
and it was already fleeting.
a few moments from now darkness.
it would descend on everything.
that darkness would throw.
a velvety veil over vandanas face.
on the face of the vandana.
whom he would see at home.
there would be no traces.
the nameless emotions inspired by a magical twilight.
on the banks of a lonely river.
the mundane realities of household chores.
ruthlessly obliterate that beauty.
however on some other afternoon perhaps even tomorrow.
the two of them again make.
their pilgrimage to the bank of that haunting river.
the circumstances retain their power to bring the same glow.
wonder and rapture to vandanas face.
the days would roll by and their daily trip.
in quest of beauty would simply harden into a habit.
one day they would discover.
the bunch of flowers responsible for purifying the filthy water.
the impure water responsible for taining the freshness of the flower.
you can look both way you are right.
actually is the way we look at things that matters.
how the visual inputs strike our nervous system.
the interesting is how exactly psychology analyses the situation.
in what and in what context.
the contaminated water of this river into account.
we are meeting after such a long time.
dont you have anything else to ask me.
dont you want to know about nandan about our marriage.
how we are faring together.
if everything is fine between us.
i presume everything must be fine.
end our relationship of five long years to marry .
he live in the room just next to mine.
you yearned for commitment for security in life.
so i must everything must be fine.
you know you are so green everything is so negative about you.
there was that line you had written about a mans insecurity.
his fear of losing his identity of being ousted from his own territory.
the relentless struggle for self preservation.
you still remember that after all these years.
anyway where are all now.
what about nandan and your children and your family.
remember you always wanted to work in the citites slum areas.
as you wanted to bring back the smiles on the faces of the children.
the children who would no longer have to trace their wasted childhood.
you had so much to do and this sudden meeting today.
so none of these happened you know what do you mean.
these are now no longer feasible.
may be there is something else you plan to do.
bearing the genetic impression of anupama has drawn by attention.
with her soft petal like fingers.
she was carving some undefine geometric patterns on the windowpane.
you may not remember but the story offered a very attractive proposition.
you had written that it is the act of preparing for our life.
that takes up all our days one of those physical status of life.
probably in the final line you had expressed your doubt whether.
without any reference point would it be possible for us to locate.
the position of our life in the vast universe and in eternity.
i could not exactly perceive all that nevertheless.
your line of thinking attract me.
anupamas daughter prastuti was trying to absorb the brisk activities around her.
the excitement was unlimited the experience varied.
the tong tong sound of the horse drawn cart.
the ring of the rickshaws bell.
the echo of the distorted footsteps of the frenzied populace.
all these have been selectively stored at some corner of her mind.
my address is still the same you know.
you can met me on this itself as i cross it daily.
which of course may or may not be convenient for you.
anupama told that they would remain here only a couple of days more.
for nandan who has jumped into the fray.
for whom life is meant to be a soaring flight.
official leave is something he could hardly afford.
according to her the world is such a small place.
there was no reason why we should not meet.
with these words she soon drives away .
and i remain here rooted to an impaired section of the road along.
which flows the murky water of the river.
the bunch of gulmohar that had been floating on the water has stopped midway.
i suddenly realise that it is only a piece of red plastic.
if anupama had been there we would have had a good laugh over.
the comic situation arising out of this error in vision.
she would have probably spoken about our tendency to misinterpret situations.
our inability to distinguish between reality and illusion.
due to the absence of an absolute power in to analyse.
the different visual inputs that crowd upon us.
thus illustrating the eminent field theory that for the entire gamut of our decisions.
the ground or field has a very important role to play.
you have had a long journey on the road that lies to the left.
your wonderful reunion with anupama.
the words that you have exchanged.
all these must be given you now a kind of nostalgic pleasure.
for you all the roads forking out from this point have no significance.
the long straight road moving endlessly along the stenchy river.
the road where you have taken your journey so far.
from this crossroad i can move forward to any direction.
as all the four roads are familiar to me.
i know the elevation i know where and how much each road turns.
the trees the houses lying on both sides of the road are known to me.
there is nothing about these roads that i dont know it.
it could be that the roads move forward because i too do so.
but what about the road on the right have you ever tried that.
i did not exactly enjoy being quizzed by the dog in this manner.
it wanted to assess my geographical knowledge of this place.
the depth of my relationship with my own soil.
in the darkness i put forward my hand.
and from the hand that manages to touch the furry animal.
i come to know that it has remained rooted to the same spot.
i take the mucky road on the right move forward and finally sit.
the steps lying on the wide bank of the river.
the water of the river continue to brush against my feet.
at every moment fresh waves come and wash that part of my foot.
where the thorn continues to hurt.
i try to recall that evening when i met parag here for the last time.
why dont you go back home i had asked him in a rather patronizing tone.
all the doors have closed upon me.
put your poetry aside and explain in definite terms what you really intend to do.
how long can you go on like this.
i am the prodigal son of my family and there is no return for me.
do you want to see the advertisement they had put up in the newspapers.
return and you will be welcomed back to the fold.
your own people will never allow you to take the path of destruction.
my father has conveyed through bapukan.
they will not accept even my dead body if asked to do so.
these are just senseless utterances.
can ananda uncle ever forget the time when you were born.
those delightful childish gurgles he first words you had lisped.
you should think more deeply.
you cannot simply look at things so dispassionately.
think of the pathetic plight of your mother how grief stricken she must be.
how many sleepless nights she must have passed pining for her only son.
my decision is final there is no question of looking back.
i have come away from my own people from rashmi and from all of you.
this escape the endless journey sleepless nights have all become a part of my life.
you will never understand.
do you really think you can achieve something with the dangerous weapon.
what you have tucked in your trousers.
have my plans ever materialised.
you can presume that this will be my in one such mission.
after all failure has always been a part of me.
the deliberate scent of the burning of incense.
the joss sticks from the crematorium nearby strike our nostrils.
then we turn our eyes that way.
the mad rush of the people clamour of the busy city.
this is an area which speak only of stillness and solitude.
a kind of emptiness shrouds this place and i happen to say.
do you think this is the finishing point.
or are you foolish enough to be convinced.
there will be others who will take over your incomplete mission from here onwards.
you can keep aside these sort of questions for the literary types like yourself.
since you have not cut off yourself completely from the village.
why dont you get a job in the local school.
that way you may even derive the satisfaction of initiating some change.
i can feel the sarcasm in your laughter.
so you must be amused at my seemingly clever way of dumping on you that work.
i cant carry out myself.
for how long you have not been to the village.
for quite sometime but then i am always in touch with the village.
when dharani and others come here they always make it a point to meet me.
have you met her or have you wiped her off completely from your mind.
the day both of us parted from each other.
parag walked into the darkness and became a part of it.
whereas it was along the street lights that i found my way.
there was a tear able pain somewhere in that part of me.
the thorn hurt me resolutely.
i may have even looked like a horse with entwined fore legs or a skinny dogs.
which had hurt its legs limping its through.
the dog is gradually coming closer to me.
perhaps the damp weather following the heavy rains is making it search for warmth.
unknowingly even i am drawing towards it.
a kind of togetherness between us is gradually taking shape.
i decide to relate to it my last meeting of parag.
i met parag again on this road lying on the right.
i followed him to the river bank soundlessly.
without any inhabition like an entranced man.
at that moment of our journey there was no exchange of words.
only the sound of the blowing wind and the moving vehicles reached our ears.
parag was moving forward with four other men maintaining an equal distance from me.
he was made to lie on the deserted area near the riverbank.
he soon turned into a ball of blazing fire.
the deliberate scent of increase sticks covered the entire crematorium.
i watched dispassionately at the finishing line of our journey of life.
the hired pallbearers soon departed whispering among themselves.
the unnatural death and a absence of family members at the funeral.
till the end parag remained an alien.
i returned with the unbearable pain in my leg like a limping dog.
at one time i lift up my legs to sit like buddha.
in meditation on the cemented floor of the traffic shed.
the consuming of cheap has completely numbed my senses.
i am yet to come out of its intoxicating spell.
i may even throw up any moment as i have consumed more than may share.
entered my intestines seemed to have filled the pot.
i realize that the road behind me leads to hasinas shop.
i have been regularly moving on this road.
all the excitement that surface on my evening stroll rush forward in this direction.
i have been making new friends there.
where gambling sessions of cards and dices are carried out to the rhythm of cheap music.
through the dim light of various shades we lift the glasses to our lips.
i asked that short haired girl her name as well as that of her dear one.
i may even want to know the name of her village.
but there is hardly any need for that.
when somebody lets me know that a police raid is on.
i make a quick departure through the hind door to the railway track.
then finally take shelter in a deserted bogey at last some sense of security.
while the railway station continues to buzz with various activities.
i leave behind all these and run through the lanes of the city.
the deserted street moves along with me.
i turn to the right and change my direction to the left.
with the tar coated street matching its steps with mine.
its length matching with the length of my journey.
its change of direction bring controlled by mine.
my driving force becomes its life force.
they all move along my course the wide road the stenchy murky water flowing under it.
i run faster and there stands right in the middle of the road.
the traffic point blocking my way and i pause.
somewhere the transformer bursts and is instantly followed by power failure.
and now i am steeped in darkness.
except for the dog sitting near me i have no companion.
i can move on the road lying in front of me.
i can even sit on the edge of the big pond lying near by.
at the break of the dawn wash my body and mind to gear up for another monotonous day.
that will have to bear the burden of my tedious routine activities.
i decide not to take the road in front of me as moving with me.
it will only arrive at my doorsteps from where there will be no moving further.
the rain drops have become relatively smaller.
the wind too has lost its fervour now.
i abandon my posture of meditation and stand up.
the pain in my leg which seemed to have subsided surfaced once again.
i open my shoes and flung them away making them land .
i emerged from the traffic shed to step on the public road.
i wish to board any waiting train.
and move to whatever destination it would carry me at its own pace.
the entire area is now plunged into darkness and i begin to walk.
the communion between us leads it to follow my footsteps.
this road is very close to me i know all its distinctive features.
i can feel the pain gradually ease away.
i stumbled on the rough road frequently slip over fallen leaves rise up.
at once continue to move forward in this familiar road of mine.
are you going to the railway station.
because i wish to because there is a long journey ahead.
are you moving towards the finishing line.
the dogs condescending attitude irks me.
suddenly electricity is restored and the whole area is flooded in light.
the sudden unexpected light almost blinds me and to my dismay.
i realise that the road which i have been moving has entered my own doorway.
it dawns on me that drifting without a sense of direction.
i have landed not at the railway station but at my own doorsteps.
the pain in my foot has become acute and unbearable.
i turn to the dog that has been following me and bark at it.
i limp and limp and drag myself to the familiar house unwillingly irresolutely.
in the suitcase there was a hanging a blank card for writing the name and address.
jatin mazumdar in nice intact letters jatin mazumdar assam.
he is a young boy of ten to twelve years from a bengali family.
he had painstakingly pronounced the words written on the body of the bus.
assam chabkabab motob charvichh instead of assam sarkarar motor service.
but even then mazumdars face had turned red with rage.
such a premier institution without any security.
only one chawkidar who is so old he cant even walk without support.
what could the poor fellow do.
this time the whole college and the town is with us.
the boys have given unconditional support.
the teachers are sympathetic not like previous times.
where they every thing by saying its your fault that has lead to this.
all the girls become signatory name of individual victim not mentioned.
the case in rajaji university in yet another case of violence against women.
shocked the town yesterday was a news of two girls.
by some unknown miscreants official hostel.
it is not clear till the reporting of the news.
what were the motives of the so called robbers and the amount robbed.
no arrest has been made so far.
the governing body of the college and governments constant neglect to rajai.
this remote part of the region has started to precipitate such a terror.
i think things will take a political twist from now onward.
no longer remain non align.
todays and canteen talks were few examples of that.
saritesh was interested in pointing out fault in the governing body.
which lead to this incident and a sense of fear in the campus.
where most of the thieves pickpockets and small time gangster of madhabgarh resides.
parading each of them in girls hostel for identification.
he thinks he might recover his stolen bike there madhabgarh.
still remembers the fight with the slum people after the theft.
and worst are the audience they will clap.
one of them came out with the idea of beating up the journalist.
publishing news item making a case out of a robbery.
her message was nice and simple we will not encourage anyone.
gaining any political advantage from the situation.
but the students didnot listen to her.
saritesh and dimple already started the agenda for the next university election.
there will be strike from tomorrow demanding many other things.
besides the matters in the primary agenda.
generalized opinion hit the hammer hard when the iron is red hot.
the performance of raphael the present president of student body is also poor.
all he is trying is to do is defend the governing body or government.
anyway he is a pathetic orator.
just because he is a good cricketer doesnot mean that he will be a good leader.
anyway what is police doing till now.
students buzz for students or against students.
various members of governing body meeting students in different groups.
encouraging them differently contrasting statements like go and .
the dean even minister or withdraw the strike or fail in exam for their benefits.
he tried hard enough so that the news doesnot reach the press.
because once people start washing their dirty linen in public.
the root problem remains secondary and unsolved forever.
but who gave the news to press.
not as robbery with more emphasis on failure of governing body and the government.
he is contesting for president post of student forum with support from party in the opposition.
which has problems college governing body also.
what police is doing in a small town like madhabgarh.
they claim to know anything that takes place even in chawks.
police press release we are working day and night to nab the culprit.
we are unable proceed with the investigation.
as the borders of the ladies hostel are not co operating with us.
we doubt whether actually something happened or not.
more report in press against state machineries inefficiency to maintain law and order situation.
but one news paper highlighted the unruliness of students.
the incidence of boarder being caught with her boy friend.
from an hotel in a routine raid.
students buzz against the press report and police statement.
dean appeals to the students to call off the strike.
minister visiting the college and re assured to look up to the matter.
students reciprocated his arrival with booing and black flag.
argument whether to continue with the strike or not.
academics offered to call it off for fear.
that management might do something in forthcoming examination for revenge.
candle light march trough the town in protest.
police interfered moushumi and prasant and two other pair.
dating after visiting hours in woodland and informed dean about the incident.
with photograph of injured shahnajpur dwellers burnt house.
for how many days we have to bear with this barbarism ask shahnajpur dwellers.
a third major violence by rajaji students in eleven months.
shahnajpur area to observe bandh in protest.
senior citizen member of parliament condemns the incident.
the mystery behind the ill famous incident allegedly involving ladies hostel.
a reputed university has been solved claims district authority.
the so called robbers were none but boy friends of respective residents.
who frequents the hostel against rule at late hour of the night.
yesterday police raided the nearby area.
and caught few couple of the college in compromising condition.
even at the moment when an agitation is going on to implement various security rule.
shame rajaji where the new generation is heading.
its an act of governing body with police to veil their own inefficiency.
college authority suspends imtiaz saritesh for their involvement with shahnajpur violence.
prasant mousumi and the other couples were warned.
their activity was reported to their parents.
violence that took place in shahnajpur was a shameful act.
we reproach such act no student of rajaji university was a part of it.
we promise to cooperate with the police in nabbing the culprit involved in such act.
we strongly deny the report that came out in the press distorting.
we insist it with our previous statement regarding the incident.
the students body strongly condemns such attempt to defame our university.
we also take strong exception to the report coming out in press.
intension of ruining a youngstars academic future.
finally the students body deleted the third para as they thought that.
it is impossible to change the mindset of madhabgarhian.
to whom woodland is a garden of eden full of .
it will only benefit the negative publicity by the people who wants this strike to stop.
that was one of the worst days of our college life.
we all felt let down pissed off and deceived.
the media the state machinery teachers we respect.
there was no one to listen to and believe in us.
i feared thing would worsen as most of the boys were agitated.
and planning to do things like attacking the police station.
the newspaper office or the dean of our college.
few hand picked were trying to pacify such group.
at last we decided to call a press conference.
to bring our view forward it gave the final punch of our ailing.
once so strong students unity the final punch.
they kept on asking question.
representatives come out with the real story of that night.
one new face asked directly why you dont say what happened.
do you think we will look down upon the girl.
i believe got disillusioned.
all of my life i believed in the students power.
youth power but the strike proved me wrong.
our strike was a total failure thanks to imtiaz sanjay.
now we can not even call it an honest strike.
because they really attacked shahnajpur slum that night.
to them it is the right way to justice.
they wont appreciate how harmful was that incident for our root cause.
we no longer can be proud of our unity.
best example to show the cracks in our self.
saritesh was only improving the base for his political future through the strike.
raphael though showed to be as innocent as possible he was.
one key element in as per governing bodies wish.
as for our non involvement is concerned.
we were also divided in various pools of opinions.
same is the case with us girls.
dimple was canvassing in the hostel for implementing cryptic political idea of saritesh.
as if we didnot understand.
worst of all were some of our psedoacademic students.
it was a time when prestige of our alma mater were at stake future.
some of our friends were shaken.
they were not bothered by them at all.
some were in the cinema with their respective fiancee.
when for candle light procession when we were busy in.
some were studying in their room.
as days passed our strike felled gradually due to lack of public support.
pressure from the authority.
and a few of our fellow students getting worried about their academic future.
no one was arrested.
authority pretended as if nothing happened.
the press never printed our version of the story.
and gradually all of us get back to our daily routine.
but the fraction that strike created remained permanently with us.
well thats the end of our story.
many years have passed.
since then locals remember it as a scandal of rather than an unfortunate incident.
the private securities intercom phone provided to were long withdrawn.
we continue to get news of fight between rajaji students .
as breaking news in television.
only one thing about the whole strike business i proudly remember.
we never disclosed who the girls in our hostel.
but woodland is still there filled with giggles of young couples.
hope that night never revisits or any hostel anytime.
there was once a merchant who employed many carpenters.
and masons to build a temple in his garden.
regularly they would in the morning.
the monkey and the wedge panchatantra story picture.
and take a break for the midday meals and return to resume work till evening.
one day a group of monkey arrived at the site of the building.
and watched the workers leaving for their midday meals.
he then went off along with the other workers for his meal.
when all the workers were gone.
the monkeys came down fom the trees and started jumping around the site.
and playing with the instruments.
there was one monkey who curious about the wedge placed between the log.
he sat down and having placed himself in between the half split.
caught hold of the wedge and started pulling .
all of a sudden the wedge came out.
as a result the halfsplit log closed in.
and the monkey got caught in the gap of the log.
as was his destiny instantly.
one day a jackal called gomaya was very hungry.
the jackal and the drum panchatantra story picture.
after some time he wandered out of the jungle he lived in.
and reached a deserted battlefield.
in this deserted battlefield a battle was fought recently.
the fighting armies had left behind a drum.
which was lying near a tree.
as strong winds blew the branches of the tree got rubbed against the drum.
this made a strange noise.
when the jackal heard this sound.
he got very frightened and thought of running away.
if i cannot flee from here before.
i am seen by the person making all this noise will be in trouble.
as he was about to run away he had a second thought.
it is unwise to run away from something knowing.
instead i must be careful in finding out the source of this noise.
he took the courage to creep forward cautiously.
when he saw the drum he realized that it was only the wind.
that was causing all the noise.
he continued his search of food.
and near the drum he found sufficient food and water.
in a city called vardhamana lived a very efficient and prosperous merchant.
a merchant the king was aware of his abilities.
and therefore made him the administrator of the kingdom.
with his efficient and intelligent ways he kept common man very happy.
and at the same time he impressed the king on the other side.
such a person who can keep everybody happy is rarely found.
later there came that the merchants daughter was getting married.
he arranged for a lavish reception.
the merchant not only invited the king and the queen who obliged by attending.
during the reception he ensured to provide his guests with the best of treatments.
to guests to show them respect for attending.
a servant of a royal household who used to sweep the palace.
he was not invited but attended the reception.
he took a seat which was reserved for royal nobles not meant for common invitees.
this made the merchant very angry.
ordered his servants to have him thrown out.
the royal servant felt very insulted and could not all night.
if i can have the king to disfavour this merchant i will have my revenge but.
thinking such he suddenly had a plan.
several days later the servant was sweeping the floor.
near the kings bed early in the morning.
he observed that that the king was still in bed half awake.
the servant started mumbling good heavens.
the merchant has come to carefree now that he dared to embrace the queen.
when the king heard this lying in his bed.
he jumped up and asked the servant is it true.
the servant at once fell at the kings feet.
i feel drowsy for i didnot sleep last night.
i dont know what i have been mumbling.
but i said anything improper please forgive me.
she sometimes she was becoming for this world.
too much of sensitivity and emotion had turned her into an ice doll.
that would melt away one day.
before her eyes everyone was racing away .
mute spectator to that competitive race was an ice doll.
that which was melted down by floods of meaningless sentiments.
and unnecessary emotions.
one day the sunset in the brahmaputra had made teardrops fall.
one day waking up at midnight she saw the moonlight.
through the window on the first floor of her hostel.
that enchantment too had moistened the pillow.
one december morning the sight of the thick patches of fog caused.
the relentless flow of tears no one could ever assert their rights in this manner.
people like her could carry a smile on the face.
even now she was smiling in front of the three of them.
but she had not succeeded in expressing her own thoughts and senses.
just a few adjustments and you will become a super model jish cried out encouragingly.
jish was jishnu from dhemaji.
having learnt photography outside assam he had now opened a studio in guwahati.
various newspapers and magazines carried his photographs.
hearing jishnu nira tapped lightly on the table.
why cant you do it kis.
how many girls have the height and figure that you have.
i am not exaggerating at all.
she did not know she did not know many things.
she did not know about naomi campbell ritu beri.
cupids bow jaw bonel these words she had heard from them.
they wouldnt let her go they wanted to turn their into a model.
that too like naomi campbell.
they wanted to change her name.
how to talk everything she got annoyed sometimes.
look kis listen to me.
nira my name is krishnangi krishnangi gohain.
why you address me as kis i dont.
out of affection kis affection.
like i address jish or aadi.
nira looked at aditya who smiled.
once they used to address him as putala doll.
she still called him putala.
she could accept the change in nira and jishnu but not in putala.
did he too want her that way nira is right kis.
theres no point in hesitating now you will see how your career is established.
she looked into putalas eyes.
after looking at them she could say nothing let alone protest.
for many years now she had been waiting to go deep into those eyes.
they that is she nira jishnu and putala had studied together at cotton college.
and she was from sivasagar.
they had major in english.
they used to stick together always at freshers farewell meetings.
saraswati puja at the hostel college week.
they would hang out at mahamaya at panbazar and had tea and snacks.
the others would give her an extra sweet eat krishna develop some flesh.
or else the wind from the brahmaputra will blow you away.
to some far off place.
jishnu used to be annoyed with her always.
how could she do well in her studies with such a.
lean and thin physique they would buy her butter ghee cashew nuts.
he would take photographs of the fishing boats on the river.
in the hazy light the bare trees of phagun the wintry fog the.
birds flying on the distant horizon that appeared as small dots.
navakantas poems were his favourite.
do you remember the poet in the rainy night arundhuti.
they would listen attentively as he recited them in his sonorous voice.
they would walk along the ferry dock at uzanbazar upto the hill near raj bhavan.
in the summer evenings the wind blowing in from the river.
would dishevel niras long loose hair.
a classic beauty and clicked aditya would say beautiful just like sunil.
this mising girl used to be a special person in the entire college.
because of her long dark hair because of her colourful mekhela chadars.
seeing her dresses indrani maam would often say to her.
do bring me a black dress please.
your dresses are so beautiful.
who weaves them for you.
my mother nira would say and her small eyes would twinkle.
once during the puja holidays she brought two sets of mekhela chadar.
one set was black with flowery patterns of different colours.
and the other was green.
she gave the black set to indrani madam and the green one to her.
hey blackie you like green dont you this is for you from my mother.
you know what it is easy to fool you people.
our womenfolk have boxes full of such dresses.
she wore it to the function at the end of the college week.
putala sat near her throughout.
please krishna lets go outside.
theres such bright moonlight.
they came out of the auditorium.
enchantment had engulfed the church at panbazar the dighalipukhuri curzon hall.
putala teased her you look like a dream princess in that green dress.
she said nothing she wanted to hear what he said.
what did he think the way she wanted to become a.
complete person before him she would permute the words he uttered.
she wanted to be a poem to him she longed to melt away.
at certain moments like this life sought greatness.
that day they passed the moments in silence.
even in the midst of their endless conversations on several occasions.
after that the words that hummed in their hearts did not come out.
an unknown hesitation always left her speechless.
decided to pursue their studies outside.
nira would pursue fashion designing jishnu photography.
and putala would study at delhi university.
she was left behind she was the only daughter of her parents.
her elder brother was studying medical science.
her father being an school teacher there were certain limitations to her dreams too.
before putala left the two of them had spent sufficient time together.
she looked into his eyes which wanted to say something.
would you like to say something krishna he had asked her.
she shok her head.
he took leave of her.
she could never come out of her lower middle class circle.
she had a tremendous inferiority complex due to her unhealthy thin body.
because of a tall thin physique like hers.
one of her paternal aunts was ageing without finding a match.
she would try her best to keep her body covered.
even in the hot july weather she would wear blouses.
and salwar kameezes with long sleeves and high necks.
she would move from shop to shop looking for flat number.
she would hesitate to move around among people with her tall body.
she worked in the advertisement department of an english newspaper.
she drew a salary with which she could pull herself through.
so long she had been alone any new friends like they did.
now after five years they met again.
they had changed niras long hair had been shortened to ear length.
as a result of dieting the roly poly girl had slimmed down.
and turned into a piece of fencing wood.
her dresses were no longer modest.
she had opened a boutique named up to date.
jishnu too remained very busy in his studio.
he had groomed many popular models.
new faces thronged his studio every day.
and nira she watched niras activities in amazement.
she cut into pieces and made new dresses out of the colourful dresses.
her mother had woven in vivid variety each of which was as beautiful as a picture.
at her fashion shows the models wore clothes designed by her.
how strangely they had changed.
this nira whose hair had made poetry spring forth.
from putalas mouth with an innocent open smile she would treat them.
to naamching por apong and pork that she brought from her home.
the way they would fight over those delicacies so full .
simplicity was niras appearance.
and daubing that simplicity with a layer.
she turned into an artificial career woman.
as she mused on the matter she got a start upon hearing.
putalas voice look kis you have a beautiful figure.
they want to make you glamorous.
you can look at it in a positive way too.
jishnu joined in even i have been saying that.
and i shall first click a number of your photographs in different poses.
the heart reverberating with words fell silent.
may be this was how people had been making sacrifices for ages for the sake of love.
what was happening to her right now that she was taking.
putalas advice to her heart.
did he too want her that way.
as a model did he know that love never sought anything in return.
simply flowed on through the heart.
do you agree kis nira asked.
she shok her head.
nira prepared many dresses for her in various designs.
placing the cosmetic box in front of her nira put make up on her.
with lipliner she gave a different shape to her lips.
then there was dark eyeshadow.
applying blue eyeliner on the eyes she turned her into a doll a lifeless doll.
sometimes her navel was revealed sometimes her thighs.
this was the modern age.
this was not an age in which to remain ensconced like a snail inside a shell.
she must be able to keep pace with them.
everything was changing she too must be able to change.
but what was happening to her why these teardrops.
this was not her world.
she had kept this body of hers covered with long sleeved high necked dresses.
who were they to her that she should sacrifice everything.
for them why were the people who had once made her life.
now turning her into a corpse.
she was ratna teachers daughter a simple human being.
who had tasted water from the pond and worked in the paddy field.
she was not a clay idol looking into adityas eyes she was surprised.
this was not aditya with eyes that shone like those of a ferocious carnivorous beast.
a pair of loveless dull eyes.
these were not the eyes that she had been holding close to herself.
there was no love in them only burning desire thirst.
there was in them bestiality that could pounce on her.
and tear her to pieces in moments.
a girl like her who loved the moonlight could never tolerate.
the greedy eyes of a lover.
living life in love that is a lover.
that love had vanished from adityas eyes.
and for the first time she felt lonely with them.
as if she was a helpless doe surrounded by hunters.
suddenly to flee from four greedy eyes.
and the sight of a businesswoman.
she picked up her long sleeved churidar.
the hands are garled the nail and pointed.
there is a cruel frightening look in his eyes.
the tongue tries to lick away the spittle that dribbles out.
from the corners of the mouth because a prey.
has just entered the cage opening the door and that prey.
who is a frail harmless creature.
called man is surrounded from the four corners he.
will be beaten in the first bout and then will begin.
the process of swallowing him bit by bit.
he is looking at the other ferocious animals.
because he has been given this last chance.
he has been asked to settle himself cosily on that guillotine board.
he is trying to scan the surrounding scene for one last time.
the spring on the door behind him make it close automatically.
and to free himself momentarily from those involuntary reaction in him.
he tries to readjust the tie with his hand.
it is very well that no one has guessed that.
and tied it like a nose round his neck.
it could be that the thin man named patowary.
actually he is a young man he cannot be older than me.
and i still consider myself young though a few white .
not because i am getting old but because of my hardships.
my bitter experiences the constant encounters travelling there.
and there by bus to attend interviews cannot recall first name.
but like me he too must have borrowed a tie from his uncle and the grey suit.
from a sales representative friend.
nitish uncle says till now you have sat for so many interviews.
these are all cover ups you must approach someone.
otherwise he will be nowhere.
try to do something at the top your father principles.
will not get you a job my classmate randeep explains to me.
leave this get a job in a company like me.
there are many advantages.
if not now may be after two or three years.
have come here there is globalization.
everywhere the world is getting smaller these foreign companies will pick up men.
like us quickly those nations will certainly profit by taking in such executives.
from a poor nation.
randeep goes on non stop about his own company about job satisfaction.
about the modern economic situation.
i am only nodding and listening i dont have any answers.
to give him because i am too insignificant most of my companions have.
been established in permanent jobs somewhere and i am still moving here.
and there searching for a permanent establishment.
i met nizora she is still waiting for you.
is randeep telling me this or am i talking to myself unconsciously.
i look at randeep he is not expecting an answer from me.
he will not carry any definite message from me to her.
i know it he just mentioned it like a sympathetic friend.
i donot need to make any comment.
because my entire surrounding has now come to be fixed at one place.
there is no change the long chain of tuition classes.
somehow help me pay the rent each month.
sometimes i have to pay a fee against an advertisement travel.
by bus or train to attend an interview like a cosmic object in motion.
ten minutes have passed already that clean shaven boy wearing a snow white.
shirt and cream coloured trousers who has been a little too restless for sometimes said.
i raise my hand and glance at the watched.
yes more than ten minutes have passed.
that boy named nabin patowary has not left the room yet.
my heart now begins to throb a little faster.
this is a normal reaction in a human being i try to tell myself.
may be it is already reflected in my face.
and all those persons sitting impatiently.
before me are also victims of the same reactions.
a kind of situation we are all in a something we have faced before.
and yet its urgency make it difficult for us to swallow it easily.
that girl with the short haircut sitting before me pulls out.
a small note book from her handbag to see for one last time.
if her memory will fail her to recall the name of the capital town of angola.
the amount of money collected from the auction clothes.
tributaries that have merged with the brahmaputra.
these may not slip out of her tongue at the last moment.
she flips quickly through the pages with her fingers with enamelled.
nails sometimes her eyes pause over a sentence underlined with red ink.
soon these answers will determine her future.
society will recognize her as a high ranking officer.
i take my eyes away from her i fix them outside.
through the open window upon that small workshop where some cars are being.
repaired though that sound of her flipping through the pages startles me now.
and then i must also try to memorize some answers.
a the incidents that have taken place around the globe in the last two or three years.
their nature date years names of nations everything.
i must go over in my brain again and again.
they can ask me any question from the internet to the mobile phone from mumbai to majuli.
how many died in yesterdays bomb blast.
in what circumstances did it take place.
these are meaningless senseless brutal things .
death has come to be a matter of mere statistics.
and their solutions who am i to speak of them.
big people like you read through the statistics of deaths try to gain political mileage from them.
but to us each murder each death can be so vicious so devastating.
do you ever think about it.
no you donot because you never travel by train or bus.
you donot go shopping in a bazaar.
and we have to brave those tremors coming from a bomb blast.
we roll in blood like a castrated goat.
the bits of flesh from our bodies are not taken away from the main road.
until the police arrives the press.
the notebook slipped out of her hand and fell on the floor with a soft thud.
i emerged out of that make believe encounter in an interview.
thank you she said as i handed her the notebook.
i read her name there pubali.
she has a sweet voice.
there is something so similar with nizora.
is this your first time i want to ask her.
but do not because some questions will then come to me too.
i donot want to get into any sort of discussion.
her eyebrows are slanted like nizoras.
it seems patowary will make it this time the jovial man named.
but then who doesnt no one has come here.
to have fun why do they walk that room twenty feet away from them.
that almost stiffles the thud of a heart.
actually we are all hopefuls there is no question about it.
does pubali want to ask me something i turn my face away.
the sound of that door opening suddenly makes us all with attention.
patowary emerges out cage and moves towards us.
he walks like an old man a murmur rises in us.
and yet we are unable to speak up.
i think because it is difficult a winner from that battlefield.
patowary flops down on the chair.
we circle him ask him about that battlefield inside the room.
how he saved himself from the missiles and grenades of words.
that were thrown at him how he escaped from them unhurt.
patowary is not saying anything he certainly looks very tired.
he gestures with his hands that he wants to rest for some time.
he will drink a glass of water and then tell us all.
the young man named bhuyan came and loosened his tie.
what did you say some of them shouted ordered the peon to repeat it.
thats right ten minutes for tea break and then the rest will be called.
a trayful of cups and saucers is taken inside the room.
is left alone to rest and we return to our individual seats.
everyone feels a little relaxed for ten minutes.
you cannot trust anyone these days.
her uncle who has good connections may ask her.
if he should meet someone though nowadays nobody gives a job on a verbal request.
if she wants he could try someone.
because those old moral principles have no meaning today.
they are mere words in a lexicon or just old relics in a museum.
so it would be worthwhile if her uncle tries to do some such thing.
or her fathers certificate of a freedom fighter could come of use.
many people secure jobs through them some even borrow certificates for such purposes.
perhaps preety does not welcome this idea.
she has just passed out of the university.
it is not yet time for her to turn to lies.
she does not want to slip on that road of life.
what can preety think of me now she may not think anything.
to her i am like the other ten ordinary candidates for a job.
maybe my hair the lines on my face make me look.
older than the others.
maybe she thinks i have failed in several other interviews.
than i am a dull worthless man.
she can make a few assumptions about my family too.
she can measure me by the inferior look in my eyes.
she could be startled by the strange similarity between my low.
desperate condition and that of an intimate friend in her college days.
i want to tell her i will make it this time.
because this is to me a battle for life and death.
that i lose every time this cannot be.
yes that man is announcing my name .
i pick up the black folder.
i walk towards that room twenty feet away from me.
four angry beasts are waiting for a prey in that cage.
i must win this battle.
if you cannot do anything i will not wait for you.
i recall those lines in nizoras last letter to me.
i open the cage door and wait before the beasts.
a heron lived near a big lake.
which was full of fishes and other water creatures.
crane and crab panchatantra story picture.
the heron had grown so old that.
he could not catch fishes from the lake anymore.
unable to bear the hunger anymore he hit upon a plan.
as planned he sat at the edge of the lake.
for everybody to see and began crying.
on seeing this a crab took pity on him and went near.
uncle what is the matter.
why are you crying instead catching fishes.
continuing to pretend the heron replied.
my child i would not touch any fish anymore.
i have decided to renounce all wordly matters.
and vowed to undertake a fast unto death.
the crab asked if you have indeed renounced worldly matters.
my child i have been in this lake from my birth.
i have grown here.
and it now that i have grown so old that i hear.
that this lake will dry up.
there will no rains for the next twelve years.
the crab was surprised to hear this.
uncle please tell me if it is true.
please tell me where you have heard such thing.
the heron replied i have heard the news from a wide astrologer.
you see there is already not much water in the lake.
the girl named preety picks up todays newspaper from the table.
i donot think she will read it with interest.
because by now all of us have exhausted reading it already.
in fact if someone remembers the exact words in the headline.
i wont be surprised.
she seems to be reading an advertisement for a detergent powder.
have you sat for an interview before preety is asking me yes.
how was it so so.
i know this is no answer at all.
if it had been good i wont be sitting with her.
in this room for an interview today.
if the interviews does not get over before the last bus leaves.
i will have trouble reaching home.
preety is not saying this to me she has no reason.
to tell me such a thing she is just talking to herself.
she looks at the watch from deepak.
if she is late her parents will worry.
she is their only daughter.
her father may even wait at the bus stop.
perhaps she will the night with her uncle.
because it is not safe to travel by bus late at night.
they became curious and asked all sort of questions.
the crab laughed and replied we were being made fools.
the heron was an imposter.
what he told about the lake drying up were all false.
he was taking one of us everyday for his meal.
in a rock not far from here.
he proudly said i understood.
what he was up to and have killed the trickster.
there is no need to worry.
we has safe in this lake.
it is not going to dry up at all.
there was once a powerful lion called bhasuraka who ruled the jungle.
he was merciless and killed other animals indiscriminately.
the cunning hare and the witless lion.
one day all the animals went together to the lion to surrender.
they said master you kill many of us.
everyday without necessity.
one a day is enough to satisfy your hunger.
please come to an understanding.
starting from today we promise.
to offer one amongst us to you everyday.
our masters hunger as promised everyday.
he roared i am the master of this jungle.
from today you will offer ourselves to me and none other.
the other lion is an imposter.
if not let him accept my challenge to a trial of strength.
whoever proves to be stronger will rule the jungle.
i will allow one of you hares to carry this message to him.
and hold the rest of you as hostages.
the hare humbly continued.
this is the reason only i among the five of us am here.
i have arrived late for the same reason.
please take action that you think will be best.
on hearing this the lion grew even more furious.
he roared take me to this pretender at once.
i will destroy him.
only after that will my anger be quenched.
the hare quickly replied master.
i must warn you that this lion stays inside a very strong den.
who takes shelter in a stronghold.
furthermore i have seen him myself he seemed very strong.
that is not your concern.
take me to him at once.
the hare then led the lion to the well.
he had come across on his way.
on reaching the hare pointed towards the well.
and said to the lion master.
we have no doubt on your powers.
the lion has hidden himself inside that stronghold.
the witless lion stood at the edge of the well.
and saw his own reflection in the water below.
he thought it to be the lion who had challenged him.
he roared at his reflection with all fury.
the roar sounded back re echoed from the well.
on hearing this the lion got furious.
and leapt inside the well to attack his own reflection.
he got drowned.
the hare was very happy that his plan had worked successfully.
he danced his way back to the other animals.
and told them what had happened to the other animals.
they gave the hare a heros welcome and praised his cleverness.
and very soon due to lack of rains.
the lake will dry up completely very soon.
the crab was taken aback by the news of what is.
to befall on them and went to tell this.
to the other water creatures.
on hearing this piece of news everybody started to panic.
they believed heron as he was not trying to catch any fish at all.
so they met the heron to seek advice.
please guide us to save us from this disaster.
the heron said there is indeed a lake not far from here.
it is full of water and beautifully covered with lotus flowers.
there is so much water in the lake would not.
even if it did not rain for twenty four years.
i can take you there if you on my back.
he had already gained their confidence.
so they gathered around him and requested to carry.
them one at a time to the other lake and save them.
everyday he would carry on of them on his back.
pretending to take them to the other lake.
after flying a little away from the lake.
he would smash them against a rock and eat them up.
then return after some time to the lake.
and relate false messages.
how they are happy in the other lake.
this happened for many days when the crab said to the heron.
uncle you take others to the lake but it is me.
please take me to the other lake to save my life.
the heron was happy to hear this he thought to himself.
having a fish everyday has become monotonous.
i will get to eat a crab today for a change.
the heron started carrying the crab to the same rock.
the crab looked down from above.
and saw the heap of bones and skeletons.
at once the crab understood what the heron was up to.
he remained calm and said to the heron.
uncle the lake seems far and i am quite heavy.
you must be getting tired let us stop for some rest.
the heroin was confident that.
there was no way the crab can escape from him in the sky.
the heron replied there is no lake for .
this trip is for my as i do everyday.
i will smash you against a rock and make a meal out of you.
when the heron confessed the truth.
the crab got hold of the herons neck.
with its strong claws and strangled him to death.
the crab laughed at himself that he had saved himself.
the other water creatures from the trick played by the heron.
he dragged the heron back to the lake.
the other water creatures in the lake.
they were surprised to see him back.
in this way you will not have to hunt.
and many of our lives will be spared.
hearing this the lion agreed.
it is true but i warn you.
if i donot receive an animal everyday.
i shall processed to kill every one of you.
in accordance to the understanding the animals drew lots.
the unlucky animal who got chosen was sent to the lion.
the others roamed about the jungle.
without any fear of being attacked by the lion.
one day a hare was chosen.
unwilling to become the lions food.
he started for the lions den.
he walked as slow as possible.
on the way the hare came across a well.
it peeked down from the edge.
and when it saw its own reflection he hit upon a plan.
he taught i have a plan that will not fail.
i will deceive the lion and lead him to his death.
on this the hare walked towards the lions den.
and even slower than before.
finally when hare reached the lions den.
the lion was hungry and furious.
he had been waiting for his food for the entire day.
he licked his lips in hunger and thought of killing.
as many animals the next morning as he could.
while he was thinking so the hare approached the lion.
the furious lion began to shout you are a miserable animal.
you are not only late but also very small.
i will first kill you and satisfy my hunger.
then kill all the rest of the animals for doing this to me.
the hare replied humbly master.
it is neither my fault nor the fault of any other animal.
please allow me to explain before you kill me.
give me an explanation fast for i am very hungry.
the hare started it was my turn to be offered to you.
but because i am small and would not be able to satisfy.
your hunger four more hares were sent along with me.
on the way we met a lion who came out of his den.
we pleaded to him that we were going to full fill.
mandavisarpini was a white flea.
she lived in the folds of the exquisite white silk sheet.
that covered the bed of a king in a certain country.
she fed on the kings blood without anybody noticing.
and was happy to spend her days.
one day a bug managed to enter the beautifully decorated.
the bedroom of the king.
when the flea saw him she warned.
what are you doing in the kings bedroom.
leave at once before you get caught.
that is no way to treat a guest.
one should welcome a guest with humble words sweet behaviour.
and one should offer refreshments.
the bug continued i have fed myself.
with all types of blood.
but never have i had the pleasure of the blood of a king.
it must be very sweet for the king eats.
i would love to taste if you permit.
the flea was taken aback.
you have a nasty bite like a sharp needle.
besides i on the kings blood only.
when he is deep into his sleep.
if you promised to wait till he is asleep.
the bug agreed i promise to wait.
till the king asleep.
only after you yourself.
i will feed myself on his blood.
soon after they decided on such terms.
the king came to his bedroom and lay down to sleep.
the bug could not control himself.
they decided to take a tiny bite of the king without waiting.
as the king was yet to fall asleep.
he jumped at the sharp bite of the bug.
the king shouted at his servants.
there is something in my bed that has bitten me.
look for as i have already been bitten.
on hearing this the bug quickly hid himself in a corner.
the bed before the servants could start searching for him.
however the servants scrutinized the entire bed sheet by sheet.
and found the flea between the folds.
they killed her at once and the king went to sleep.
without any more worries.
once a jackal named chandarava.
one day he was very hungry and could not find any food.
so he wandered into a nearby village in search of food.
the dogs in the village saw the jackal.
a group of dogs surrounded him barking.
and attacking with their sharp teeth.
the jackal started running to save itself but the dogs chased.
in an attempt to flee from the dogs he ran into a house.
there was a big vat of blue dye inside.
as he jumped without knowing.
his entire body was dyed in blue colour.
he no longer looked like a jackal.
frustrated he came out.
when the dogs saw him again.
they were unable to recognize him anymore.
fearing that it was an unknown animal.
they became terrified and ran off in all directions.
the disappointed jackal went back to the jungle.
but the blue dye would not come off.
when the other animals in the jungle saw this blue coloured jackal.
they ran away in terror.
they said to themselves this is an unknown animal.
and we do not know the strength of this new animal.
it is better to run away.
when the jackal realized that all the animals were running away.
he called back at the frightened animals and said hey animals.
why are you running away dont be afraid.
brahma the lord of all creations has made me himself.
brahma said to me the animals in the jungle do not have a proper king.
go to the jungle and protect the animals.
that is the reason i have come here he continued.
come and live in peace in my kingdom and under my protection.
the other animals were convinced and they surrounded him.
as his subjects and we await your commands.
please let us know whatever you want.
the blue jackal assigned specific responsibilities to every animal.
they were mostly on how to serve him.
but he did not have anything to do with the other jackals.
and did not want to come near them in fear of being recognized.
so the jackals of the jungle were chased away.
and so it went while the smaller animals would serve him.
with his other needs the lions and the tigers would go out.
to hunt for prey and place them before the jackal everyday.
he would then distribute the food amongst other animals and himself.
in this manner he discharged his royal duties.
for all the animals under his kingdom.
quite some time elapsed in this way.
and there was peace between animals.
one evening the blue jackal heard.
a pack of jackals howling at a distance.
unable to overcome his natural instinct.
he was so spellbound that he was filled with tears of joy.
he immediately sat up and began to howl like every other jackal.
when the lion and the other animals heard this they realized.
and how they have been fooled all the time.
they held their heads down in shame but only for a moment.
because they became very angry on the jackal for fooling them.
they angrily said to each other this jackal has fooled us.
we will not let him live anymore.
he should be punished.
when they jackal realized he tried to flee from them.
but the animals got hold of him and he was torn into pieces.
he died on the very spot.
there was once a jungle that was ruled by a lion.
who had a leopard jackal.
and a crow at his service along with other animals.
as they did regularly they were wandering about the jungle.
one day when the lion saw a camel at a distance.
and was feeding itself on the green grass of the jungle.
the lion took a fancy on this animal.
he had not seen before let us go.
and ask this extraordinary animal where he comes from.
the crow who flies to far off places was aware.
it is camel and this animal lives in villages.
the flesh of this animal tastes good.
let us kill it and eat it but the lion disagreed.
he does not belong to the jungle so he is our guest.
i will not kill it please go and assure him.
that no harm will be done and bring him to me.
as per the lions instruction they went to the camel.
and assured him that they were to bring it to the lion.
they won its confidence and they brought the camel to the lion.
the camel stood before the lion and bowed.
and how he had reached the jungle.
on hearing this the lion said.
he will be made a beast to carry burden again.
stay in the jungle under my kingdom instead you can feast.
on the abundant green grass of the jungle any fear.
the camel accepted the offer.
and they began to live together in peace.
later one day the lion got severely wounded.
in a fight with a mad elephant.
such were his injuries that he could not take a few steps.
due to lack of food the lion became weaker.
the animals who served him were also starving.
since they were dependent on the lion for their food.
when the lion could not bear anymore he called them.
and said go and find any animal.
that i can prey upon even in my weak condition.
this way i can provide food for you and also for myself.
all the animals wandered about the jungle.
without any success to find such an animal.
on their way back the jackal had a plan.
he said to the crow there is no point wandering about the jungle.
when the food is right in front of us.
the camel can provide us with the food.
for all of us for a long time.
the crow replied indeed what you say is correct.
but has assured the camel of his safety under his rule.
he will refuse to kill him.
the jackal said leave that to me.
that he will agree to feast on the camel.
you wait till i return after a discussion with the lion.
the jackal met the lion and said master.
we have been looking all around the jungle.
but could not find an animal for you.
all of us have not had food for so long that.
you can hardly walk properly.
under this circumstance if you agree to kill the camel.
his flesh can provide food for all of us.
the lion disagreed shame on you.
how can i kill the camel.
when he has my assurance that his life will be safe.
under my kingdom it is a sin to think likewise.
but the jackal continued master it would indeed be a sin.
to kill his after you have given him the assurance of his safety.
but if he offers himself as your food by himself.
it would then not be a sin to kill him and accept his offer.
in his time of need.
please kill one of us for yourself.
and the others to save the rest of us from dying of hunger.
the lion failed to justify the jackal and said.
do what you think would be in the best for all of us.
after this the jackal returned to the other animals.
and declared our master is sick and weak.
if something happened to him.
there would not be anyone to protect us.
we have failed to get any animal.
after wandering throughout the jungle.
the only way now to repay our debts.
to our master would be to offer ourselves to him.
this way the rest of us would be saved from dying of hunger too.
as planned all of them stood before the lion and bowed.
they informed the lion that they did not succeed.
to find any animal for their food.
the crow said master we could not find an appropriate animal.
for your food so i offer myself.
please eat me to save yourself from hunger.
the jackal interrupted.
you are too small to provide flesh for the master.
even if he agrees your offer.
it will not be enough for his survival.
indeed you have proven your devotion and by offering yourself.
you have already freed yourself from the debt of the master.
and said please accept my offer instead.
the jackal stood humbly before the lion master.
there would not be anyone to protect us.
We have failed to get any animal.
after wandering throughout the jungle.
The only way now to repay our debts.
to our master would be to offer ourselves to him.
This way the rest of us would be saved from dying of hunger too.
As planned all of them stood before the lion and bowed.
They informed the lion that they did not succeed.
to find any animal for their food.
The crow said Master we could not find an appropriate animal.
for your food So I offer myself.
Please eat me to save yourself from hunger.
The jackal interrupted.
You are too small to provide flesh for the master.
Even if he agrees your offer.
it will not be enough for his survival.
Indeed you have proven your devotion and by offering yourself.
you have already freed yourself from the debts of the master.
He turned to the lion.
and said please accept my offer instead.
The jackal stood humbly before the lion Master.
If you accept my sacrifice.
I will be honoured with a place in heaven.
On hearing this the lion shook his head in refusal.
This way the other animals started offering themselves.
but the lion kept refusing to accept their offer.
The camel who was observing all this thought.
All of them speak beautifully about offering themselves.
but the master refuses to kill them.
I shall seek to impress the master in a similar fashion.
Thinking such the camel said to the other animals.
We have offered yourself but the master cannot eat you.
because all you are carnivores.
and belong to the same category as the lion himself.
Stand by for I shall offer myself.
With this the camel came forward and bowed before the lion.
He said Master you need not kill any of these animals.
Please eat me instead.
I offer myself in return to your debts.
I shall find my way to the heaven if you may.
please accept my offer.
No sooner had he made the offer the other animals cheered.
having already been influenced by the jackal.
the lion jumped on him.
he was killed and eaten by all the animals together.
a pair of Tittibha birds husband and wife lived on a seashore.
The female Tittibha bird was expecting to lay eggs and raise a family.
when the time to lay eggs came.
she asked her husband to look.
for a safe place to lay her eggs my dear please look.
for some good and safe place for me to lay eggs.
as it is almost time for me to lay them.
but the male Tittibha bird said dearest.
where is the world could be a better place.
than this seashore Please lay your eggs here She disagreed.
The waves of sea on full moon nights are so high.
they can drag even an elephant into it.
no please find a place away from here.
the male Tittibha bird laughed and insisted.
the sea would not even dare to do any harm to my children.
do not fear unnecessarily and lay eggs here without any worries.
all the time the Sea had been hearing this and thought.
from a small bird as he such impudence is not expected.
i will certainly take away his eggs to see.
what he does after that and teach him a lesson.
within a few days the female Tittibha bird laid her eggs.
in search of food the Sea started making waves.
the waves became higher and higher.
till it swallowed the eggs into it.
the birds returned later to find the nest empty.
the female Tittibha bird started weeping bitterly.
see for yourself that the waves of the sea has swallowed our eggs.
you are a fool not to listen to me.
when I asked you to find a safe place to lay eggs.
the male Tittibha bird continued its stupidity Dear dont you worry.
i will prove to you how brilliant I am.
i will dry the sea and force it to return our eggs.
the female Tittibha bird wondered.
how can you dry this enormous sea.
The male Tittibha bird explained.
Even small beings can overcome.
the strongest opponents if they are zealous.
And so I plan to dry up the whole sea.
by sucking its water with my beak.
The wife argued How can you suck the sea dry.
when rivers like the Ganges and Indus.
and hundreds of other rivers flow into it.
There is no good in this babbling.
While the husband argued I will work day and night to suck.
all the water from the sea with my beak.
which is as solid as iron.
Man can succeed only after putting efforts.
The female Tittibha bird understood.
she will not be able to convince him.
Dear there is no point in arguing.
If you want to conquer the sea.
please call for your friends to help you.
The husband agreed All right.
I will do this with the help of my friends.
Now all the friends of the female Tittibha bird were called.
and when they all gathered together.
the male Tittibha bird explained his problem with the sea.
and how it had insulted him and.
how he plans to dry the sea to seek revenge.
All the birds the swan crane peacock and other unanimously agreed.
the task was impossible There is no good in this babbling.
It is impossible for us to suck the sea to dry it up completely.
Instead let us visit our king Garuda Lord Vishnus vehicle.
the king of birds according to Hindu mythology.
When he comes to know that we have been harassed by the sea.
he will get angry and seek revenge.
Even if we merely pay him a visit to seek his advice.
we shall feel relieved.
As decided they all went to their king Garuda.
explained the reason of them being so sad.
O King the sea has robbed the eggs of the good Tittibha birds.
even after the fact that you are our protector.
If this is allowed to continue our entire race shall perish.
Garuda realized that the birds were in grave circumstances.
and agreed to go and dry the entire sea.
Just as he was leaving a messenger arrived from Lord Vishnu.
who needed his assistance at once for some divine task.
Garuda explained to the messenger that he was unable to serve his master.
at this time I am such a common servant.
to the Lord for him to need me.
The sea which is the resting place of the Lord has swallowed.
the eggs of the Tittibha birds.
I refuse to serve him if he will not force the sea.
to return the eggs at once This is my firm resolution.
Please let him know of it.
When Lord Vishnu came to know the Garudas resolution from his messenger.
he thought I can understand his behaviour and need to pacify him.
He is the king and protector of all the birds.
I must meet Garuda at once.
As Lord Vishnu visited Garuda he bowed in respect and explained.
the sea which is your resting place has insulted me.
by swallowing the eggs of my humble servant the good Tittibha birds.
It is out of the respect that I have for you.
I have not taken any step for revenge.
Lord Vishnu considered his plea Come with me Garuda.
You are right.
The sea should not have done such a thing on purpose.
Let us go and return the eggs to the Tittibha birds.
After that we will leave as I need your assistance.
They all went to the seashore where Lord Vishnu reprimanded the sea.
Taking a thunderbolt in his hand he warned.
O Sea you have been wicked.
Return the eggs of the Tittibha birds.
at once or dare to face my anger.
When the sea heard the warning from the Lord Vishnu himself.
it was terrified.
It at once aplogised and returned the eggs to the Tittibha birds.
What is destined to happen will happen for sure.
The female sparrow replied That is indeed true.
But all my children were killed by this wicked elephant.
this is also true We had done no harm to him.
If you consider yourself to be a friend continued the female sparrow.
Please suggest me a way to destroy this elephant.
and avenge the death of my children.
So I will repie the woodpecker I have a fly as a friend.
Let us go and ask for her help to destroy this cruel elephant.
Thus the woodpecker and the female sparrow went to meet the fly.
The woodpecker explained My friend please meet this sparrow.
She is a dear friend of mine.
Her eggs were destroyed by wicked elephant.
please help us find a way to destroy this cruel elephant.
I will certainly help you the fly said.
after hering the events How can I be you friend.
and yet not help you when you need me.
I have a frog as a good friend.
let us seek his help to destroy this wicked elephant.
Thus the female sparrow woodpecker and the fly went to the frog.
and explained him of all the events.
for which they had come to him for help.
The old frog said after hearing everything.
The elephant is big but he is alone.
What can this elephant do if we work together.
to destroy him I have a plan.
He explained Fly When the sun is scorching your task would be to buzz in his ears.
When he closes his eyes in sheer ecstacy.
the woodpeckers task would be to peck his eyes and make him blind.
In this scorching summer he will certainly search for water.
but being blinded already he will not be able to do so.
I will then sit on the edge of the nearby pit.
and cloak at the top of my voice.
He continued When the thirsty elephant hears me.
he will think there is a pond or lake nearby and follow my voice.
And when he does so he will fall into the pit and perish.
This way we can avenge the death of the sparrows children.
The others agreed to the plan.
and organized to do their part of the tasks as laid by the old frog.
They executed their tasks successfully.
and the elephant fell into a muddy pit to eventually die.
There lived a lion called Vajradaunstra in the jungle.
who had two attendents a jackal and a wolf.
One day a caravan was passing by.
one of the camels in the caravan was a expectant female.
As she was not able to walk and was in labour pains.
the caraven set her free and left her behind.
Within moments she fell prey to the lion.
and while the them were eating.
They cut the womb of the camel.
from which a baby camel came out.
Since it was just a baby.
and they already had a good meal out of the camel.
the lion decided to spare the baby camels life.
He brought the baby camel home.
The lion said to the little camel.
From now onwards you will live with us.
and you will have nothing to fear from even me.
I will let everybody know that you are under my protection.
and you can wander about fearlessly and feed on the green grass of the jungle.
From then onwards they lived happily.
The four of them would tell each other stories.
and the camel was already found along with the lion.
One day the lion returned home badly injured.
after a fight with a wild elephant.
He was unable to even walk let alone go out and hunt.
Unable to bear the hunger he asked the camel jackal and the wolf.
to go in search of some small animal.
that he will be able to kill even in his condition.
Thus the hunger for all three of them would be satisfied.
But the three of them returned emptyhanded in the evening.
after their efforts to search for an animal.
The jackal began wondering in hunger.
The young camel does not belong amongst us.
and he will be able to provide food for many days.
But I have to be cunning to convince the lion to kill him.
as he has promised not to harm him.
He said to the camel Our master will soon die of hunger.
and some other animal will prey on you after they know.
there is nobody to protect you anymore.
I suggest you must offer yourself to the lion and save us from dying.
For your sacrifice you will be reborn in a body.
twice the size of what you have in this life.
The young camel agreed immediately.
Had it not been for the lion I would have been death long ago.
I shall be rewarded hundred times for my sacrifice and find a place in heaven.
I agree to offer my body.
In the evening the jackal said to the lion.
that the camel will be blessed with twice the size of the body.
in his next birth if he killed him and worshipped.
God before eating him.
He explained that the camel was willing to offer his body.
The lion was convinced by the cunning jackal and he agreed.
As soon the jackal was able to convince him.
he jumped on the young camel and tore his apart.
The young camel died instantly.
The lion remembered that he must worship before eating.
for the young camels next life and asked the jackal.
and wolf to guard over the carcass while he returned.
He then went for a bath and worshiped the gods.
When the lion was gone the jackal thought.
How can I fool the lion and have the entire camel for myself.
He thought of a plan and called out to the wolf.
I know you are unable to tolerate the hunger anymore.
Eat a mouthful of the camels flesh.
I will convince the lion by making up a story.
The wolf started eating some believing the jackals words.
Just then the jackal alerted.
Here comes the lion stop eating now.
When the lion returned the wolf had stopped eating.
But the lion noticed that his food had been contaminated.
He roared How is it that my food is contaminated despite.
it being guarded by the two of you.
The jackal smiled at the wolf I adviced you not to eat.
but you would not listen.
You could not tolerate your hunger and wait for the kings return.
You should be ashamed of yourself.
The lion noticed the blood on the wolfs paw and attacked it.
The wolf realizing that he would die.
if he did not flee ran for his life to never return again.
At the very moment a very big caravan approached.
The camel in the caravan had large bells around their necks.
and the jingling sound could be heard from a distance.
The lion was suprised by the unusual and terrifying noise.
and he wanted to know what made the noise.
At once the jackal used it as an opportunity.
He said Master it is the same caravan returning.
Only this time it is led by Yama God of death.
He must be very angry on you for killing the camel.
before the hour appointed for his death.
Look he even brings the camels forefathers and relatives to avenge his death.
I suggest you should run away from here.
The lion believed him and was frightended.
When he saw the caravan approaching with so many camels.
he ran for his life.
When the jackal had finally gotten rid of the lion.
he ate the camels flesh all by himself.
he lasted many days.
There lived a group of monkeys in the mountains.
During one winter there were heavy rains.
Drenched in the rain they began to shiver in the cold.
The Bird And The Monkey Panchatantra Story Picture.
During this time some of the monkey found some colourful Gunja fruits.
which appeared to them as embers of fire.
Hoping to make some fire for themselves they began to blow at them.
A bird on a nearby tree was watching the monkeys from above.
Considering the vain attempts they monkeys were busy with it.
with the thought of advising them against it What big fools you are.
You are blowing at some Gunja fruits and not embers of fire.
You will never be able to make any fire out of them.
What you are doing is a waste time.
These fruits will not help you to protect yourself against the cold.
go and find some shelter instead.
You may find a cave or a burrow where you will be protected.
from the rains and the cold winds.
The monkeys did not like his advice.
One of the old monkeys said Go fool yourself.
Why are you interfering in our task.
But the bird disgreed.
Not heeding what the old monkey had said it flew down from the tree.
and persisted that the monkeys stop what they were doing.
The monkey ignored his chatter but the bird refused to stop.
In an effort to convince the monkeys the bird came close.
to explain that their efforts were useless.
Already frustrated by their vain efforts the monkeys became furious.
One of the monkeys caught hold of the bird.
and smashed him against a stone in anger killing him.
A couple of sparrows lived on the branches.
of a huge tree deep in the jungle.
They had worked very hard in building their nest.
it was a comfortable home that protected them in all weathers.
One day during the winter as they were enjoying the comforts.
of their nest is started raining outside.
Sometime later a monkey came to take shelter.
under the very same tree.
The monkey was all drenched in the rain.
and his teeth were chattering in the cold.
When the female sparrow saw this she felt pity on him.
and said from her nest Monkey You have hands and feet similar to humans.
You can use them for many reasons.
Why dont you make yourself a protected home.
The monkey was already suffering from the rain.
and the cold and was in no mood for an advice.
He replied You wicked sparrow.
why cant you keep your mouth shut.
But the female sparrow continued her advice.
She explained how she was able to enjoy the comforts of her home.
and how she did not suffer from either heat or cold or rain.
This made the monkey very angry.
The monkey thought What a wicked female bird.
She talks as if she has mastered all sciences and philosophies.
and simple wont stop chirping.
She is making me so angry that I might as well kill her.
I am already suffering from this rain and cold.
I do not wish to hear any advice.
The female sparrow however continued chattering and did not cease to advice.
At one moment the monkey became so angry.
that he climbed up the tree and tore up her nest to pieces.
Give your advice only to those who deserve it else you will come to grief.
Once upon a time there were two friends in a small village.
named RightMind and WickedMind or WrongMind.
One day the wicked of the two WickedMind thought to himself.
that he was poor and lacked the knowledge to earn for himself.
He thought of taking RightMind to another kingdom.
and use his skills to make money.
He thought If I have deprive him of all the earnings.
I can have all the money for myself and live happily.
RightMind And WrongMind Panchatantra Story Picture.
After some time he met RightMind.
My friend we need to earn money to provide for ourselves when we grow old.
Let us travel to some other kingdom to earn money.
Besides unless we travel to far off kingdoms.
we will not have any stories to tell our grand children.
RightMind agreed to his plan and took the blessings of his parents.
and teachers to travel to a distant kingdom.
On an auspicious day they began their journey.
The two of them made a lot of money due to RightMinds skills and knowledge.
After some time pleased with their earnings they planned to return home.
On their way to their home as they approached their village.
WickedMind said to RightMind Friend It will be improper for us.
to carry so much money home as well our friends.
and relatives we start requesting us money.
Besides there is danger of theft.
He said Let us bury the money in the jungle where nobody will find it.
after taking only a nominal amount for our needs.
Whenever we need some money we can come back together and dig it out.
Without doubting his intentions RightMind agreed.
They buried most of the money beneath a tree.
and returned home with only a handful of money.
Few days later WickedMind went to the jungle alone in the dead of the night.
He uncovered all the money they had buried together took out all the money.
and closed the pit as it was before.
He returned back home all the money and hid it.
After a few days pretending that nothing has happened.
he went to meet RightMind Friend I have a large family.
and the money I had come with have been spent already.
Let us go together to the place we have buried our money to fetch some more.
RightMind agreed and together they went to the place.
they had buried their money and dug up the pit.
But they found the money was not there.
wickedmind started beating his head and blamed RightMind.
It is you no doubt Nobody else knew where we have buried the money.
You have stolen all the money for yourself.
If you do not give me my half of the money.
I shall go and complain to the village elders for justice.
Taken aback RightMind protested I have committed no such theft.
Dont put the blame on me as I am a virtuous man.
And so they started quarelling and visited the village elders for justice.
The elders asked them to pledge before the FireGod to find the truth.
WickedMind suggested Before bledging before the Fire God.
we can request the spirit of the tree to stand witness.
It was in front of a big tree that we had buried.
all the money and it may be able to reveal to us who the thief is.
The judges agreed We shall go the jungle together.
and request the spirit of the tree to reveal the truth to us.
If that fails we will take pledge before the FireGod.
WickedMind immediately went home to his father.
I have stole a huge amount of money from RightMind.
and we have taken the matter to the village elders.
Your cooperation will save me and put the blame on RightMind.
Otherwise I shall not only lose the money.
but the face risk of losing my life for stealing.
His father said My son tell me how I can help you.
so you dont have to part from the money.
WickedMind explained There is a huge hollow inside the big tree.
where we had buried the money.
You have to get inside the hollow before morning.
When all of us go to the jungle as request the spirit of the tree.
to reveal the truth you have to shout.
from inside that RightMind is the real thief I can handle the rest.
As agreed his father went to the jungle.
and hid himself in the hollow of the tree early next morning.
After some time accompanied by the elders of the village.
both RightMind and WickedMind led themselves to the huge tree.
where they had buried their money.
WickedMind asked in a loud voice spirit of the tree.
Please tell us who the thief is as we have a confrontation.
and the village elders have come to seek the truth.
Immediately WickedMinds father replied from inside the hollow of the tree.
Listen all who seek the truth.
RightMind is the thief who has stolen all the money.
The village elders were wonder struck.
They could not deny that the spirit of the tree had indeed revealed the truth.
They immediately started discussing amongst themselves.
how they should punish for RightMinds guilt.
Mean while when RightMind heard the spirit of tree.
speak such he became sure that there must be something wrong.
The spirit of the tree if it was so is telling untruth.
That is not possible Having seen the hollow of the tree.
he put a heap of dried leaves and grass.
in front of the hollow of the tree and set fire to it.
When the fire started flaring up WickedMinds father could not bear the heat.
and the smoke inside the hollow any longer.
He came out with burns in his body crying for pity.
The village elders were surprised to find him.
come outside from the hollow of the tree What were you doing here.
And what has happened to you He at once confessed his part.
and explained the village elders what his son had done.
Thus the village elders came to know of the truth and decided.
to punish WickedMind for his guilt for theft to blame it on RightMind.
and misleading the village elders.
They decided to hang WickedMind on the very same tree.
and praised RightMind for his wit.
Avoid the company of the wicked you will pay a heavy price for it.
The Foolish Crane And The Mongoose.
There was a huge Banyan tree beside a lake.
which nested a number of cranes.
In the hollow at the foot of the tree lived a poisonous black snake.
He used to climb up and eat the cranes youngs.
after they were hatched.
One crane who had lost her children to the cunning black snake.
started weeping on the banks of the lake.
A crab who was nearby heard the crane weeping.
and asked Why do you cry aunty.
The crane replied I am the unlucky mother.
all of whose children have been eaten by the wicked black snake.
who lives in the hollow of the tree.
What else can I do but weep.
I would have killed the snake if I could.
The crab thought for a while I have to devise a plan.
to have the black snake killed and have the cranes destroyed.
at the same time The cranes are our natural enemy.
I will tell him half truth and half lies to my advantage.
Thinking so the crab said to the crane Aunty.
I will tell you a plan to get rid of the black snake.
All you have to do is scatter some fish and flesh from a nearby burrow.
where a mongoose lives in the snakes hollow.
When the mongoose will come following the foos.
and reach the snakes home he will certainly kill him.
The crane agreed to do as the crab planned.
As anticipated the mongoose saw the black snake.
while following the trail of food.
They had a fight and the mongoose killed the snake.
After this the mongoose realized that there were many cranes.
on the top of the trees.
In due course of time the mongoose climbed up the tree.
and started killing the cranes till all the cranes were destroyed.
The solution of the problem should not be worse than the problem itself.
That is while trying to solve the problem.
you should not complicate the problem further.
veernadhana was a merchants son who was not successful.
He faced a loss in his business and lost all his money.
He thought of travelling to a different part of the country to seek success.
He had inherited a very costly iron balance from his ancestors.
When leaving the mortgaged the iron balance to the nearby merchant.
in exchange of money for his travels.
He travelled all over the country and had a successful travel.
The merchants son then decided to return to his home town.
After his return he went to the nearby merchants place.
He asked for his iron balance Friend Please return the iron balance.
that I had kept with you.
The other merchant did not want to return it he said.
I do not have it anymore.
you have a problem with rats.
the rats are eating up everything.
They have eaten up your iron balance too.
At once the merchants son knew the truth.
He replied If the rats have eaten it up there is nothing that you can do.
Anyway nothing can last forever.
He continued I am eager to go for a bath in the river.
please ask your boy to help me carry my belongings.
and to look after them while I take my bath.
The other merchant agreed and called his son.
son this is you uncle.
Please accompany him to the river and keep watch.
so that none of his belongings get stolen.
So the merchants son and the boy went to river.
After he had taken a bath the merchants son took the boy to a nearby cave.
He kept the boy inside the cave.
he blocked the enterance of the cave with a big rock.
He then returned to the other merchants place.
When the other merchant saw his friend returning alone.
he asked Where is my boy Why have you returned alone.
The merchants son replied I feel sorry for you.
When I was taking my bath your boy was standing on the bank.
Just then a flamingo flying above swept down.
and carried you boy off in its claws I could do nothing.
On hearing this the other merchant got angry.
He said You are a liar A flamingo can never carry a boy.
as big as him in its claws.
I shall complain about you to the village elders.
At once the other merchant dragged the merchants son.
to a nearby village elder and started complaining.
The other merchant said He is a disgraceful man who has kidnapped my son.
The village elder instructed How can you do this.
Return his son to him immediately.
But the merchants son was unmoved.
He said There is nothing that I can do.
A flamingo swept down and carried him off in its claws from the riverbank.
Hearing this the village elder got angry.
He shouted How can a flamingo carry a child You are lying.
The merchants son replied Sir In a city where rats eat iron.
why cannot a flamingo carry a child.
The village elder was amazed to hear this Where does a rat eat iron.
What is the meaning of what you say Please explain yourself clearly.
The merchants son narrated the entire sequence of events to them.
as explained how he had hidden the merchants boy in a cave.
to get his iron balance back.
When the village elder and everybody else who had crowded.
Sati screamed Shiva as he rapidly drew his sword.
and started sprinting towards his wife pulling his shield forward.
as he ran Shell run into a trap.
Shiva picking up his pace as he saw her dash into a cluster of trees.
alongside the road leading to the Ramjanmabhoomi temple in Ayodhya.
Sati was totally focused on chasing the retreating hooded Naga her sword drawn.
and held far from her body like a seasoned warrior with her prey in sight.
It took a few moments for Shiva to catch up with Sati to ascertain.
that she was safe As they continued to give chase.
Shivas focus shifted to the Naga He was shocked.
How did that dog move so far ahead.
The Naga showing surprising agility was effortlessly navigating.
between the trees and undulating ground of the hillside picking up pace.
Shiva remembered battling with the Naga at the Brahma temple at Meru.
when he had met Sati for the first time.
His slow leg movement sat the Brahma temple were just a battle strategy.
Shiva flipped his shield clipping it on to his back to get room.
to run faster Sati was keeping pace to his left.
She suddenly made a grunting sound and pointed to the right.
to a fork in the path that was coming up Shiva nodded.
They would split up and try to cut off.
the Naga from opposite ends on the narrow ridge ahead.
Shiva dashed to his right with a renewed burst of speed sword at the ready.
Sati stayed her course behind the Naga running equally hard.
The ground beneath Shivas feet on.
the new path had evened out and he managed to cover the distance rapidly.
He noticed that the Naga had pulled his shield into his right hand.
The wrong hand for defence Shiva frowned.
Quickly coming up to the Nagas right with Sati.
still some distance away Shiva reached with his left hand drew a knife.
and flung it at the Nagas neck A stunned Shiva.
then saw a magnificent manoeuvre that he hadnt imagined possible.
Without turning to look at the knife or even breaking a step.
the Naga pulled his shield forward in the path of the knife.
With the knife safely bouncing off the shield.
effortlessly let the shield clip on to his back maintaining his pace.
Shiva gaped in awe his speed slackening.
He blocked the knife without even looking at it.
Who the hell is this man Sati meanwhile had maintained.
her pace edging closer to the Naga as Shiva ran in from the other trail.
onto the path that the Naga was on Seeing Sati cross the narrow ridge Shiva picked up.
speed closing in on his wife Because of the steep angle of the sloping ridge.
he could see the Naga further ahead reaching the wall at the bottom of the hill.
The wall protected the Ramjanmabhoomi temple at the base from animal attacks.
and trespassers The height of the wall gave Shiva hope.
There was no way the Naga could jump over it.
He could have to climb giving Sati and him the crucial seconds.
needed to catch up and mount an attack.
The Naga came to the same realisation as well As he neared the wall.
he pirouetted on his heels hands reaching to his sides drawing out two swords.
The sword in his right hand was a traditional long sword glinting in the evening sun.
The one in his left a short sword with a strange double blade.
mounted on a central pivot at the hilt Shiva.
pulled his shield forward as he neared the Naga.
The Naga swung the long sword hard forcing Sati to step back.
With Sati on the back foot the Naga swerved with his left hand.
making Shiva duck to avoid a strike.
As the Nagas sword swept safely away.
Shiva jumped high and struck down from his height a blow almost impossible to defend.
if the opponent is not holding a shield.
The Naga however effortlessly stepped back.
avoiding the strike while thrusting forward with his short.
sword putting Shiva on the back foot.
The Neelkanth had to quickly swing his shield up to deflect the blow.
Sati again moved forward her sword forcing the Naga back.
Reaching behind with her left hand she pulled out a knife and threw it.
The Naga bent his head at the exact moment letting the knife.
sail harmlessly into the wall Shiva and Sati were yet to get.
a single strike on the Naga but he was progressively being forced to retreat.
It was a matter of time before he would be pinned against the wall.
By the Holy Lake I finally have him.
And then the Naga swung ferociously with his left hand.
The sword was too short to reach Shiva.
and it appeared to be a wasted manoeuvre Shiva pushed forward confident.
he would strike the Naga on his torso But Naga swung back.
this time his thumb pressing a lever on the pivot of the short sword.
One of the twin blades suddenly extended beyond the length of the other.
doubling the reach of the sword The blade cut Shiva on his shoulder.
Its poisoned edge sent a jolt of electricity through his body immobilising him.
Shiva screamed Sati as she swung down on the sword.
in the Nagas right hand hoping to knock the blade out.
Moments before the impact the Naga dropped his long.
sword causing Sati to lurch her sword slipping out of her hand.
as she struggled to regain her balance.
No screamed Shiva helpless to his back unable to move.
He had noticed what Sati had forgotten.
The knife Sati had flung at the Naga when he had been discovered.
hiding behind a tree at the Ramjanmabhoomi temple was tied to his right hand.
The Naga swiped with his right hand at the falling Satis abdomen.
Sati realised her mistake too late.
But the Naga pulled his hand back at the last moment.
What would have been a lethal blow turned into a surface wound running.
a tickle of blood The Naga jabbed Sati hard.
with his left elbow breaking her nose and knocking her down.
With both his enemies immobilised the Naga quickly flicked his long.
sword up with his right foot He swung both his weapons.
into their scabbards eyes still on Shiva and Sati.
Sati screamed Shiva rushing towards his wife as the poison released.
her invitations as deliberate as her slow English speech.
And Miss Bailey as she and the First Readers followed.
the order of studies laid down for them found herself again and again.
trying to imagine what the days would be to.
if her keen shrewd eyes were to be darkened and useless.
At three o clock she set out with Morris.
leaving the Board of Monitors to set Room eighteen to rights.
with no more direct supervision than an occasional look.
and word from the stout Miss Blake.
whose kingdom lay just across the hall.
And as she hurried through the early cold of a November afternoon.
she was almost reviled at last to learn.
that a complaint was a slow forming cataract.
and her supplication that Miss Bailey would keep a watchful eye.
upon Morris while his mother was at the hospital.
undergoing treatment and operation.
But of course Miss Bailey agreed I shall be delighted to do.
what I can though it seems to me that one of the neighbours.
Neighbours snorted the matron.
What you think the neighbours make mit mine little boy.
They got four five dozens children their selves.
They aint got no time for look on Morris.
They come maybe in mine house und break mine dishes.
Sati screamed Shiva as he rapidly drew his sword.
and started sprinting towards his wife pulling his shield forward.
as he ran Shell run into a trap.
Shiva picking up his pace as he saw her dash into a cluster of trees.
alongside the road leading to the Ramjanmabhoomi temple in Ayodhya.
Sati was totally focused on chasing the retreating hooded Naga her sword drawn.
and held far from her body like a seasoned warrior with her prey in sight.
It took a few moments for Shiva to catch up with Sati to ascertain.
that she was safe As they continued to give chase.
Shivas focus shifted to the Naga He was shocked.
How did that dog move so far ahead.
The Naga showing surprising agility was effortlessly navigating.
between the trees the undulating ground of the hillside picking up pace.
Shiva remembered battling with the Naga at the Brahma temple at Meru.
when he had met Sati for the first time.
His slow leg movementsat the Brahma temple were just a battle strategy.
Shiva flipped his shield clipping it on to his back to get room.
to run faster Sati was keeping pace to his left.
She suddenly made a grunting sound and pointed to the right.
to a fork in the path that was coming up Shiva nodded.
They would split up and try to cut off.
the Naga from opposite ends on the narrow ridge ahead.
Shiva dashed to his right with a renewed burst of speed sword at the ready.
Sati stayed her course behind the Naga running equally hard.
The ground beneath Shivas feet on.
the new path had evened out and he managed to cover the distance rapidly.
He noticed that the Naga had pulled his shield into his right hand.
The wrong hand for defence Shiva frowned.
Quickly coming up to the Nagas right with Sati.
still some distance away Shiva reached with his left hand drew a knife.
and flung it at the Nagas neck A stunned Shiva.
then saw a magnificent manoeuvre that he had not imagined possible.
Without turning to look at the knife or even breaking a step.
the Naga pulled his shield forward in the path of the knife.
With the knife safely bouncing off the shield the Naga.
effortlessly let the shield clip on to his back maintaining his pace.
Shiva gaped in awe his speed slackening.
He blocked the knife without even looking at it.
Who the hell is this man Sati meanwhile had maintained.
her pace edging closer to the Naga as Shiva ran in from the other trail.
onto the path that the Naga was on Seeing Sati cross the narrow ridge Shiva picked up.
speed closing in on his wife Because of the steep angle of the sloping ridge.
he could see the Naga further ahead reaching the wall at the bottom of the hill.
The wall protected the Ramjanmabhoomi temple at the base from animal attacks.
and trespassers The height of the wall gave Shiva hope.
There was no way the Naga could jump over it.
He could have to climb giving Sati and him the crucial seconds.
needed to catch up and mount an attack.
The Naga came to the same realisation as well As he neared the wall.
he pirouetted on his heels hands reaching to his sides drawing out two swords.
in his right hand was a traditional long sword glinting in the evening sun.
The one in his left a short sword with a strange double blade.
mounted on a central pivot at the hilt Shiva.
pulled his shield forward as he neared the Naga.
Sati attacked the Naga from his right.
The Naga swung the long sword hard forcing Sati to step back.
With Sati on the back foot the Naga swerved with his left hand.
making Shiva duck to avoid a strike.
As the Nagas sword swept safely away.
Shiva jumped high and struck down from his height a blow almost impossible to defend.
if the opponent is not holding a shield.
The Naga however effortlessly stepped back.
avoiding the strike while thrusting forward with his short.
sword putting Shiva on the back foot.
The Neelkanth had to quickly swing his shield up to deflect the blow.
Sati again moved forward her sword forcing the Naga back.
Reaching behind with her left hand she pulled out a knife and threw it.
The Naga bent his head at the exact moment letting the knife.
sail harmlessly into the wall Shiva and Sati were yet to get.
a single strike on the Naga but he was progressively being forced to retreat.
It was a matter of time before he would be pinned against the wall.
By the Holy Lake I finally have him.
And then the Naga swung ferociously with his left hand.
The sword was too short to reach Shiva.
and it appeared to be a wasted manoeuvre Shiva pushed forward confident.
he would strike the Naga on his torso But the Naga swung back.
this time his thumb pressing a lever on the pivot of the short sword.
One of the twin blades suddenly extended beyond the length of the other.
doubling the reach of the sword The blade cut Shiva on his shoulder.
It poisoned edge sent a jolt of electricity through his body immobilising him.
Shiva screamed Sati as she swung down on the sword.
in the Nagas right hand hoping to knock the blade out.
Moments before the impact of Naga dropped his long.
sword causing Sati to lurch her sword slipping out of her hand.
as she struggled to regain her balance.
No screamed Shiva helpless on his back unable to move.
He had noticed what Sati had forgotten.
The knife Sati had flung at the Naga when he had been discovered.
hiding behind a tree at the Ramjanmabhoomi temple was tied to his right hand.
The Naga swiped with his right hand at the falling Satis abdomen.
Sati realised her mistake too late.
But the Naga pulled his hand back at the last moment.
What would have been a lethal blow turned into a surface wound running.
a trickle of blood The Naga jabbed Sati hard.
with his left elbow breaking her nose and knocking her down.
With both his enemies immobilised the Naga quickly flicked his long.
sword up with his right foot He swung both his weapons.
into their scabards eyes still on Shiva and Sati.
The Naga then jumped high holding the top of the wall behind him with his hands.
Sati screamed Shiva rushing towards his wife as the poison released.
He were walking up the Avenue with doctor.
Just before we reached the Circle the doctor stopped.
and pointing out to me one of the big corner houses.
so pompously grouped around me this story.
You see those four closed windows above the balcony.
During the first day of August that terrible August of last year.
so full of storms and disaster I was called there.
to attend a very severe case of apoplexy.
First Empire and now an old gentleman mad about glory.
At the outbreak of war he had gone to live.
That he might be present at the triumphant return of our.
He had journeyed a long way and was very tired.
It seemed like a dream when he stood up after a sleep.
in the field and looked over the wall and saw the garden.
and the flowers and the children playing all about.
He looked at the long road behind him at the dark wood.
and the barren hills it was the world to which he belonged.
He looked at the garden before him at the big house.
and the terrace and the steps that led down to.
the smooth lawn it was the world which belonged.
to the children Poor boy said the elder child.
I will get you something to eat.
But where did he come from the gardener asked.
We do not know the child answered but he is very hungry.
The mother says we may give him some food.
I will take him some milk said the little one in one hand.
she carried a mug and with the other.
she pulled along her little broken cart.
But what is he called asked the gardener.
We do not know the little one answered.
but he is very thirsty and mother says we may give him some milk.
Where is he going asked the gardener.
We do not know the children said but he is very tired.
When the boy had rested well he got up saying.
I must not stay any longer and turned to go on his way.
What have you to do the children asked.
I am one of the and must help to make the world.
go round he answered Why do we not help too.
You are the passengers How far have you to go they asked.
a long way he answered On and on until I can touch the sun.
Will you really touch it they said.
I dare say I shall tire long before I get there.
he answered sadly Perhaps without knowing it.
though I shall reach it in my sleep he added.
But they hardly heard the last words for he was already far off.
Why did you talk to him the gardener said.
He it just a working boy And we do nothing.
It was very good of him to notice us they said humbly.
good said the gardener in despair.
Why between you and him there is a great difference.
There was only a wall they answered.
Who set it up they asked curiously.
Why the builders of course Men set it up And who will pull it down.
It will not want any pulling down the man answered grimly.
Time will do that As the children went back to their play.
they looked up at the light towards which the boy was journeying.
Perhaps we too shall reach it some day they said.
My mamma reported Morris choosing a quiet moment.
during a writing period to engage his teachers attention.
my mamma likes you shall come on mine house for see her.
Very well dear answered Miss Bailey with a patience born.
of many such messages from the parents of her small charges.
I think I shall have time to go this afternoon.
My mamma Morris began again she says I shall tell you.
how she do not send you no letter.
She could not to send no letter.
I am sorry to hear that said Teacher.
with a little stab of regret for her prompt.
acceptance of Morris invitation for of all the ailments.
which the children shared so generously.
with their teacher Miss Bailey had learned to dread most.
the many and painful disorders of the eye.
She knew however that she was not one of those.
who utter unnecessary cries for help being in this regard.
as in many others a striking contrast to the majority of parents.
with whom Miss Bailey came in contact.
To begin with she had but one child her precious only Morris.
In addition to this singularity she was thrifty.
and neat intensely self respecting and independent of spirit.
and astonishingly outspoken of mind.
She neither shared nor understood the gregarious spirit.
which bound her neighbours together and is the lubricant.
which makes East Side crowding possible without bloodshed.
No love of gossip ever held her on street corners or on steps.
She nourished few friendships and fewer acquaintanceships.
and she welcomed no haphazard visitor.
Her hospitalities were as serious as her manner.
one fine evening a young princess put on her bonnet.
and went out to take a walk by herself in a wood.
when she came to a cool spring of water with.
she sat herself down to rest a while.
now she had a golden ball in her hand.
which was her favourite play thing.
and she was always tossing it up into the air.
and catching it again as it fell.
after a time she threw it up so high.
that she missed catching it as it fell.
and the ball bounded away and rolled along on the ground.
until at last it fell down into the spring.
the princess looked into the spring.
after her ball but it was very deep.
so deep that she could not see the bottom of it.
she began to cry and said if i could only get my ball again.
i would give all my fine clothes and jewels.
and everything that i have in the world.
she was speaking a frog put its head out of the water.
and said princess why do you weep so bitterly.
she what can you do for me you nasty frog.
my golden ball has fallen into the spring.
the frog said i do not want your piers.
and jewels and fine clothes but if you will love me.
and let me live with you and eat from off your golden plate.
and sleep on your bed i will bring you your ball again.
what nonsense thought the princess.
this silly frog is talking.
he can never even get out of the spring to visit me.
though he may be able to get my ball for me.
and therefore i will tell him.
he shall have what he asks.
so she said to the frog well.
if you will bring me my ball.
i will do all you ask.
then the frog put his head down.
and dived deep under the water.
and after a little while he came up again.
with the ball in his mouth and threw it.
on the edge of the spring.
as soon as the young princess saw her ball.
she ran to pick it up.
and she was so overjoyed to have it in her hand again.
that she never thought of the frog but ran home.
with it as fast as she could.
the frog called after her stay princess.
and take me with you as you said.
but she did not stop to hear a word.
the next day just as the princess had sat down to dinner.
she heard a strange noise as if something was coming.
up the marble staircase and soon afterwards.
there was a gentle knock at the door.
and a little voice cried out and said.
open the door my princess dear.
by the fountain cool in the greenwood shade.
then the princess ran to the door and opened it.
and there she saw the frog whom she had quite forgotten.
at this sight she was sadly frightened.
and shutting the door as fast as.
she could came back to her seat.
the king her father seeing that something had frightened her.
asked her what was the matter.
there is a nasty frog said she at the door.
that lifted my ball for me out of the spring this morning.
i told him that he should live with me here.
thinking that he could never get out of the spring.
but there he is at the door and he wants to come in.
while she was speaking the frog knocked again.
at the door and said open the door my princess dear.
then the king said to the young princess.
as you have given your word you must keep it.
so go and let him in she did so.
and the frog hopped into the room.
the bottom of the room to the top.
till he came up close to the table.
where the princess sat pray lift me upon chair.
said he to the princess and let me sit next to you.
as soon as she had done this the frog said.
put your plate nearer to me.
that i may eat out of it.
this she did and when he had eaten.
as much as she could he said now i am tired.
and the princess though very unwilling took him up.
in her hand and put him upon the pillow of her own bed.
where his slept all night long.
as soon as it was light the frog jumped up.
hopped downstairs and went out of the house.
now then thought the princess at last he is gone.
and i shall be troubled with him no more.
but she was mistaken for when night came again.
she heard the same tapping at the door.
and the frog came once more and said.
and when the princess opened the door.
the frog came in and slept upon her pillow.
as before till the morning broke.
and the third night he did the same.
but when the princess awoke on the following morning.
she was astonished to see instead of the frog.
a handsome prince gazing on her.
with the most beautiful eyes she had ever seen.
and standing at the head of her bed.
he told her that he had been enchanted by a spiteful fairy.
who had changed him into a frog.
and that he had been fated so to abide.
till some princess should take him out of the spring.
and let him eat from her plate.
and sleep upon her bed for three nights.
and said the prince have broken his cruel charm.
and now i have nothing to wish for.
but that you should go with me into my fathers kingdom.
where i will marry you and love you as long as you live.
the young princess you may be sure was not long.
in saying yes to all this.
and as they spoke a brightly coloured coach drove up.
with eight beautiful horses decked.
with of feathers and a golden harness.
and behind the coach rode the princes servant.
who had bewailed the misfortunes of his dear master.
during his enchantment so long and so bitterly.
they then took leave of the king.
and got into the coach with eight horses.
and all set out full of joy and merriment.
and there they lived happily a great many years.
she was always called the bad girl.
for she had once when she was very little.
put out her tongue at the postman.
she lived along with her grandmother.
and her three brothers in the cottage beyond the field.
and the girls in the village took no notice of her.
the bad girl did not mind this for.
she was always thinking of the cuckoo clock.
the clock stood in one corner in the cottage.
and every hour a door opened at the top of its face.
and a little cuckoo came out.
and called its name just the same number of times.
that the clock ought to have struck and called it.
so loudly and in so much haste.
that the clock was afraid to strike at all.
the bad girl was always wondering whether it was worse.
for the clock to have a cupboard in its forehead and a bird.
that was always hopping in and out or for the poor cuckoo.
to spend so much time in a dark little prison.
if it could only get away to the woods.
she said to herself who knows.
but its voice might grow sweet.
and even life itself might come to it.
she thought of the clock so much.
that her grandmother used to say.
if you would only think of me sometimes.
but the bad girl would answer.
you are not in prison granny dear.
and you have not even a bee in your bonnet.
let alone a bird in your head.
why should i think of you.
one day close by the farm she saw the big girls.
from the school gathering flowers.
give me one she said perhaps the cuckoo would like it.
but they all cried and tried to frighten her away.
they are for the little ones birthday tomorrow.
she will be seven years old they said.
and she is to have a crown of flowers and a cake.
and all the afternoon we shall play merry games.
with her is she unhappy that you are taking.
she is very happy but it will be her birthday.
and we want to make her happier.
why because we love her said one.
because she is so little said another.
because she is alive said a third are all things.
that live to be loved and cared for.
the bad girl asked but they were too busy to listen.
so she went on her way thinking and it seemed.
as if all things round the birds and bees.
and the rustling leaves and the little tender wild flowers.
half hidden in the grass answered as she went along.
yes they are all to be cared for and made happier.
if it be possible the cuckoo clock is not alive.
she thought it is not alive the trees answered.
but many things that do not live have voices.
and many others are just sign posts pointing the way.
the way to what and where we find out for ourselves.
we must all find out for ourselves.
the trees signed and whispered to each other.
as the bad girl entered the cottage.
the cuckoo called out its name eleven times.
but she did not even look up.
she walked straight across to the chair by the fireside.
and kneeling down kissed her grannys hands.
once upon a time there was a funny guy named lenny.
lenny was an inventor he invented all kinds of contraptions.
his house looked like a mess.
but he had some really cool things.
one day lenny decided he wanted to fly.
i am going to invent some wings and fly.
lenny told his friend rudy.
now i really know you are crazy.
you would not even get off the ground said rudy.
you will see said lenny so he went down to his workshop.
and began working day and night he worked.
no one saw lenny for weeks.
then one day he came out of his workshop.
with a great big grin on his face.
he called rudy on the phone rudy tomorrow.
i will fly but i need your help said lenny.
did you really build some wings asked rudy.
they are really beautiful said lenny.
they are a little heavy though i need you to help me.
what did you make them out of asked rudy.
i made them out of some scrap metal.
i had laying around from when i built my helicopter.
last year said lenny metal do not you think.
they will be too heavy to use for wings asked rudy.
no i calculated all of the angles.
i will be like a human airplane said lenny.
rudy just rolled his eyes.
i will be over first thing in the morning.
and well try them out said rudy.
see you then said lenny.
the next morning they dragged the wings.
up to the top of kill devil hill.
the lenny strapped them on.
are you sure those are not too heavy.
asked rudy again no the faster i run.
the lighter they will get.
the wind will lift me up.
and i will be flying said lenny.
quite confidently all right i am going.
to get a running start and take off said lenny.
so lenny backed up about fifty feet.
and started running as he ran the weight of the wings.
started to wear out his legs.
and he got lower and lower to the ground.
just as he got to the crest of the hill.
his legs gave out.
and he skidded across the ground on his face.
after rudy rolled around on the ground.
laughing for about a minute.
he got up and asked lenny if he was ok.
real funny said lenny i guess you may be right.
they are a little heavy but i know.
the shape is just right i will just go back.
to the workshop and make them.
out of another material something lighter.
a couple of weeks later lenny called up rudy.
i have done it said lenny you have done what.
asked rudy i reworked the wings.
these things are so light i may get.
by simply jumping off the roof.
come on over i need a witness said lenny.
i am on the way said rudy.
when rudy arrived lenny was already up.
on the roof with these hilarious looking pink wings.
pink wings laughed rudy this is the stuff.
i had left over from when i invented.
that giant pig robot we used on halloween last year.
so you think you are just going to jump off.
and fly asked rudy here goes said lenny.
he backed up a little and took a quick dash.
and a jump smack the wings broke right off.
and lenny landed on his head.
in the middle of some bushes next to the house.
after rudy rolled around on the ground laughing.
for about a minute he got up.
and asked lenny if he was ok real funny said lenny.
i guess they may have been a little weak.
but i know the shape is just right.
i will just go back to the workshop.
and make them out of another material.
something not as heavy as the scrap metal.
and not as light as the tissue paper.
sounds like a good idea to me said rudy.
as he rolled his eyes.
a couple of weeks later lenny called up rudy.
i have really done it this time said lenny.
you have done what asked rudy i reworked the wings.
i made them out of wax and balsa wood.
these things look just like birds wings.
meet me at kill devil hill.
i need a witness said lenny.
i am on the way said rudy.
when rudy arrived he saw the wings.
they did look good i need you to help me.
strap them on said lenny rudy helped him.
strap on the wings they fit real snug.
there was a handle under each wing out near the tip.
for lenny to use to move the wings up.
and down and a belt that went around.
his waste so that they would not fall off.
here we go yelled lenny as he backed up.
and began running towards the crest of the hill.
he did not slow down and just as he got to the edge.
of the hill he started to lift up into the air.
he was flying he flew and flew just laughing and hooting.
he flew higher and higher.
he was really getting high now.
and he started to worry how do i land these things.
he asked himself that question was about to be answered.
all of a sudden he noticed that.
his wings were starting to melt he had risen so high.
that the sun was starting to melt the wax.
he used to make the wings pretty soon he had little tiny wings.
he was flying about a hundred miles an hour down towards the woods.
boy this is going hurt again said lenny to himself.
he crashed into the trees rudy ran up.
are you all right he asked yes i think so.
but i am definitely going to quite trying to fly.
this is too rough on the body said lenny.
to this day no one believes rudy when he tells.
the story of how lenny flew like a bird.
it may be good that they do not believe him.
because others would probably get hurt as did lenny.
lenny also made a commitment not to invent anything.
that cannot be used while standing firmly on the ground.
he often tells people if people were meant to fly.
they would have wings.
once upon a time there lived a boy named bill.
who always dreamed of flying to the moon.
one summer evening when bill was trying to go to sleep.
he was bothered by his big brother ron.
the only way bill could go to sleep was to put.
on some headphones and play a tape.
his favourite tape had the sound of.
the ocean waves splashing up on shore.
as he lay there in bed with his eyes closed pretending.
he was lying on the beach under a full moon.
he began to daydream about flying to the moon.
in a rocket ship the rocket ship was not very big.
just big enough for two astronauts.
he and his brother ron were co astronauts.
bill called out to ron navigator ready.
ron called back in the headset yes navigator ready.
mission control ready bill asked into the headset.
we will begin countdown in minus ten seconds.
nine seconds eight seconds bills heart began to race.
two seconds one blastoff.
bill and ron were thrown back into their seats.
they could feel the skin on their faces.
being stretched back towards their ears.
then they felt like they weighed hundred pounds apiece.
their rocket ship zoomed up into the sky.
so fast everything out the window was just a blur.
it seemed like just a couple of minutes had gone by.
when everything got really smooth and quiet.
they were now in outer space.
bill was sitting in the front seat.
and ron was in the back.
bill asked ron what does it look like out the back.
it looks like earth is just a blue and white ball.
you can see the clouds and oceans.
but you cannot see any cities or trees.
ron asked bill can you see the moon coming up.
yes i see it bill said.
i think we will be there in about thirty minutes.
if my calculations are correct were going.
twenty five thousand miles per hour.
and it is about fifty thousand miles to the moon.
cool said ron i think i will play my game boy.
and listen to some music on my boom box.
you brought your boom box bill was obviously annoyed.
you know i do not go anywhere without my boom box said ron.
he turned on the music and the boys listened.
the time quickly passed mission control.
to bill came over the headsets bill here.
you will need to prepare for landing in two minutes.
said the voice roger well be ready said bill.
here we go hold on it looks like it.
might be a rough landing the rocket ship came in very rough.
so rough that both bill and rons air bags deployed.
but that airbag hit me in their face like a rock hard pillow.
i think my nose would be bleeding.
if i did not have on this helmet lets take a look around.
and see if the rocket ship good idea said ron.
they put on their moon walk suits.
the moon walk suits were big and heavy.
they had built in air conditioners to cool them.
when the sun was on them and a heater to warm them up.
when they were in the shade.
since they were in outer space it would go way.
below freezing in the shade.
and get so hot you could get burned in the sun.
when they stepped outside they felt like.
they were floating on air.
they only weighed about six pounds each.
so when they walked it was as if they bounced.
they bounced up about ten feet with each step.
they quickly gathered up some moon rocks as souvenirs.
then they began to inspect the rocket.
to make sure it was flyable for the return trip.
things did not look good.
the portion of the ship that housed.
the rocket starter was heavily damaged.
the batteries that turned the starter were completely destroyed.
they began to fear that they might be trapped on the moon.
what are we going to do asked ron.
he looked scared i dont know bill answered.
lets call mission control.
and see if they have any suggestions.
they went back inside and tossed the moon rocks aside.
they called mission control.
we will get back to you was the answer.
they needed time to think.
we only have enough food and water for one more day.
ron reminded bill yeah we will really need to conserve it.
they nervously sat in their seats.
and waited for mission control no reply.
after a while bill jumped up and said i have got it.
give me your boom box ron said what are you crazy.
no just give it to me said bill.
ron surrendered his boom box.
bill took it and turned it on real loud and smiled.
ron looked sad he just knew that bill was losing his mind.
then bill turned off the music.
and flipped the boom box upside down.
he opened the battery compartment.
and took out the eight large batteries.
i think we can tape these together and make one big battery.
that will start the rocket said bill.
hand me that duct take from the tool kit.
sounds like a good idea to me said ron.
bill lined up the batteries in two rows of four.
and taped them together in a bundle.
he took a piece of tape and connected a wire.
to the batteries on each end.
he hooked one up to the starter.
he took the other wire and ran it back up to.
his seat in the front bill told ron to get in his seat.
if i touch the wire to the metal on the dashboard.
the starter should work and we can blast off.
ron hoped that he was right are you ready.
bill asked ron without waiting for an answer.
as he touched the wire to the dashboard.
they could hear the roar of the rocket.
before they knew it they were zooming back.
through space towards earth how they both yelled.
just then bills mom pulled the headphones off of his head.
and told him to go on to sleep.
it was easy for bill to get back to sleep.
because he hoped he could pick up.
his rocket ship dream right where he left off.
it was a windy day.
the mailman barely made it to the front door.
when the door opened mistress pennington said hello.
but before she had a real chance.
to say thank you the mail blew out of the mailmans hands.
into the house and the front door slammed in his face.
worthwhile going any farther.
they went back and told the frogs round the village.
that they had seen the city.
and it was just like theirs.
over a river there was a very narrow bridge.
one day a goat was crossing this bridge.
just at the middle of the bridge.
he met another goat.
there was no room for them to pass.
two goats go back said one goat to the other.
there is no room for both of us.
why should i go back said the other goat.
why should not you go back.
you must go back said the first goat.
because i am stronger than you.
you are not stronger.
than i said the second goat.
we will see about that said the first goat.
and she put down his horns to fight.
stop said the second goat.
if we fight we shall both fall into.
the river and be drowned.
instead i have a plan i shall lie down.
and you may walk over me.
then the wise goat lay down on the bridge.
and the other goat walked lightly over him.
so they passed each other.
and went on their ways.
once upon a time in an island.
there lived all the feelings.
and emotions happiness sadness knowledge.
and all of the others including love.
and he said aloud to himself.
wonderful flowers on the bamboo have brought me.
both the young pandas have to be friends with me.
i will lure them away and feast on them.
the hyena once again came to the pandas.
and said now the flowers have bloomed.
on the bamboo hurry up and get down.
to shake hands with me.
mickey was very upset and was at his wits end.
as to how to get rid of the beast this time.
jackie however was least afraid of the hyena.
he was busy sharpening a thick bamboo.
pointed at both its ends.
when the bamboo became pointed.
he hurled it towards the hyena.
he pointed towards the pointed bamboo.
and said we can become friends only.
and barks and jumps on its masters knee.
it is not fair then the donkey said to himself.
if i do what the dog does he may make a pet of me.
so the donkey ran into the room.
it brayed as loudly as it could.
it wagged its tail so hard.
that it knocked over a jar on the table.
then it tried to jump on to its masters knee.
the master thought the donkey was mad.
and he shouted help help.
men came running in with sticks.
and they beat the donkey.
till it ran out of the house.
and they drove it back to the field.
i only did what the dog does said the donkey.
and yet they make a pet of the dog.
and they beat me with sticks it is not fair.
once upon a time there lived a pauper and a banker.
the first was as poor as the second was rich.
so it was inevitable that.
the rich man will be happier than the pauper.
but their natures were opposite.
for the poor man was happy.
whereas the banker was not.
the banker was annoyed of the fact.
that while he tossed and turned in his bed.
at night the pauper slept peacefully.
and always awoke rested and full of energy.
one day the banker could stand it no longer.
he decided to find out.
why the pauper was a happy man.
in spite of his poverty.
so he summoned him to his house.
and asked him his yearly income.
because he believed that happiness.
could only be measured in terms of wealth.
i do not count too well nor do i really care.
i live each day as it comes.
and never worry about the next.
then just tell me how much you earn in one day.
insisted the rich man i earned what i need.
and even that would be too much were it not for.
all the sundays and holidays.
when i must close my shop.
the banker liked the pauper.
to thank him for coming to his house.
so he presented the poor man.
with a bag of hundred gold coins.
now to the pauper these coins.
which meant so little to the banker.
seemed a great fortune.
he decided to hide the bag.
so that he would have the money.
if ever he should need it.
so when he returned to his house.
he dug a big hole in a corner of the garden.
threw the bag into it and covered it with dirt.
pauper but from that day on the poor man.
life changed he began to worry about.
the safety of his money.
every night he slept a little less.
and each time he heard the slightest sound.
he became anxious about the safety of his coins.
finally he could bear his unhappiness no longer.
he went to the garden dug up the coins.
and returned them to the banker.
the pauper had learned an important lesson.
and so has the banker a wolf carried off a lamb.
the lamb said i know you are going to eat me.
but before you eat me i would like to hear.
you play the flute.
i have heard that you can play the flute.
better than anyone else.
even the shepherd himself.
the wolf was so pleased at this.
that he took out his flute and began to play.
when he had done the lamb insisted him.
to play once more and the wolf played again.
the shepherd and the dogs heard the sound.
and they came running up.
and fell on the wolf and the lamb was able to.
get back to the flock.
two frogs had lived in a village.
all their lives they thought they would like to go.
and see the big city that was about ten miles away.
they talked about it for a long time.
and at last they set off to see the city.
and they soon began to feel tired.
they had only gone a little way.
when one said to the other.
we must be nearly there.
can you see the city.
no said the other frog.
but if i climb on your back.
i might be able to see it.
so he climbed up on the back of the other frog.
to see the city now when the frog put up his head.
his eyes could only see what was behind.
and not what was in front.
so he saw the village they had just left.
can you see the city.
asked the frog who was below.
yes answered the frog who had climbed up.
i can see it it looks just like our village.
then the frogs thought that it was not.
worthwhile going any farther.
they went back and told the frogs round the village.
that they had seen the city.
and it was just like theirs.
over a river there was a very narrow bridge.
one day a goat was crossing this bridge.
just at the middle of the bridge.
he met another goat.
there was no room for them to pass.
two goats go back said one goat to the other.
there is no room for both of us.
why should i go back said the other goat.
when you put the bamboo in your mouth.
and jump from that cliff.
the hyena asked but why should i jump.
with bamboo in my mouth.
can not we become friends without this exercise.
absolutely not our mother had said.
that if the hyena does not jump.
with the bamboo in his mouth.
we should not be friends with him.
if you have to be our friend then you have to.
do as i say said jackie very seriously.
the hyena became thoughtful.
he was thoroughly trapped in jackeys trap.
if he refused to do what was being told.
he had to retreat.
finally under compulsion he decided to.
jump with the bamboo in his mouth.
despite his reluctance the hyena inserted.
the pointed end of the bamboo in his mouth.
and climbed the cliff and jumped.
the moment he landed on the ground.
the hyena shouted loudly in pain oh my god.
i am dead the bamboo has pierced through my neck.
the panda brothers jumped with joy.
mean while the mother panda had also returned.
after visiting her sister.
she saw the hyena writhing in pain.
jackey and mickey told her everything.
when she came to know everything.
and said well done you have proved.
that both of you are brave and intelligent.
and can defend yourself from prying enemies.
the hyena with the bamboo stuck.
in his mouth was in a really bad shape.
he ran away as fast as he could.
and was never seen in the jungle again.
a man had a little dog.
and he was very fond of it.
he would pat its head and take it on his knee.
and talk to it then he would give it.
little bits of food from his own plate.
a donkey looked in at the window.
and saw the man and the dog.
why does he not make a pet of me.
said the donkey it is not fair.
i work hard and the dog only wags its tail.
and he put down his horns to fight.
stop said the second goat.
if we fight we shall both fall into.
the river and be drowned.
instead i have a plan i shall lie down.
and you may walk over me.
then the wise goat lay down on the bridge.
and the other goat walked lightly over him.
so they passed each other.
and went on their ways.
once upon a time in an island.
there lived all the feelings.
and emotions happiness sadness knowledge.
and all of the others including love.
one day it was announced to them.
that the island would sink.
so all constructed boats and let except for love.
love wanted to hold out until.
the last possible moment.
when the island had almost sunk.
love decided to ask for help.
richness was passing by love in a boat.
love said richness can you take me with you.
richness answered sorry love i can not.
there is a lot of gold and silver in my boat.
and so there is no place here for you.
love next asked vanity who was also sailing by.
vanity was also ready with the same answer.
i cant help you love you are all wet.
and might damage my boat vanity answered.
sadness was close by so love asked sadness.
take me along with you love i am so sad.
that i need to be by myself.
sadness said in a sullen voice.
happiness passed by love too.
but she was so preoccupied.
with her happiness that she did not even.
hear when love called her.
suddenly there was a voice come.
love i will take you it was an elder.
an overjoyed love jumped up into the boat.
and in the process forgot to ask where they were going.
when they arrived at a dry land.
the elder went her own way.
realizing how much was owned to the elder.
love asked knowledge another elder.
who helped me it was time knowledge answered.
time thought love then as if reading.
the face of love knowledge smiled and answered.
because only time is capable of understanding.
how valuable love is a shepherd boy.
who watched a flock of sheep near a village.
brought out the villagers three or four times.
by crying out wolf and when his neighbours came.
to help him laughed at them for their pains.
the wolf however did truly come at last.
the shepherd boy now really alarmed.
shouted in an agony of terror pray.
do come and help me.
the wolf is killing the sheep.
but no one paid any heed to his cries.
nor rendered any assistance.
the wolf having no cause of fear.
at his leisure destroyed the whole flock.
there is no believing a liar even.
when he speaks the truth.
miser sold all that he had and bought a lump of gold.
which he buried in a hole in the ground by the side.
of an old wall and went to look at daily.
one of his workmen observed his frequent visits to the spot.
and decided to watch his movements.
he soon discovered the secret of the hidden treasure.
and digging down came to the lump of gold.
and stole it the miser on his next visit found the hole empty.
and began to tear his hair and to make loud lamentations.
a neighbour seeing him overcome with grief.
and learning the cause said pray do not grieve so.
but go and take a stone and place it in the hole.
and fancy that the gold is still lying there.
it will do you quite the same service.
for when the gold was there you had it not.
as you did not make the slightest use of it.
the snow queen by hans christian andersen.
there is a legend that once upon a time.
a beautiful fairy the snow queen.
lived on the highest most solitary peaks.
of the alps the mountain folk.
and shepherds climbed to the summits to admire her.
and everyone fell head over heels in love with her.
every man would have given anything.
including his life to marry her.
indeed their lives are just what they did give.
for fate had decided that no mortal.
he would every marry the snows now queen.
but in spite of that many brave souls did their.
best to approach her hoping always to persuade her.
each suitor was allowed to enter the great ice palace.
with the crystal roof where the queens throne stood.
but the second he declared his love.
and asked for her hand thousands of goblins.
appeared to grasp him and push him over.
the rocks down into bottomless abysses.
without the slightest emotion.
the queen would watch the scene.
her hearts of ice unable to feel anything at all.
the legend of the crystal palace.
and the beautiful heartless queen.
spread as far as the most distant alpine valley.
the home of a fearless chamois hunter.
fascinated by the tale he decided to set out.
and try this luck.
leaving his valley he journeyed for days on end.
climbing the snow clad mountain faces.
scaling icebound peaks and defying the bitterly.
cold wind that swept through the alpine gullies.
more than once he felt.
all was lost but the thought of the lovely snow.
queen gave him new strength and kept him moving onwards.
at last after many days climbing.
he saw glinting in the sunshine before him.
the tall transparent spires of the ice palace.
summoning all his courage.
the young man entered the throne room.
but he was so struck by the snow queens beauty.
that he could not utter a word.
shy and timid he did not dare speak.
so he knelt in admiration before the queen.
for hours on end without opening his mouth.
the queen looked at him silently.
thinking all the while that provided.
he did not ask her hand in marriage.
there was no need to call the goblins.
then to her great surprise.
she discovered that his behaviour touched her heart.
she realised she was becoming quite fond of this hunter.
much younger and more handsome than her other suitors.
time passed and the snow queen dared not admit.
not even to herself that she would actually like to.
marry the young man.
in the meantime the goblins kept watch over their mistress.
first they were astonished.
then they became more and more upset.
for they rightly feared that their queen.
might be on the point of breaking the law.
and bringing down on the heads of all.
the mountain people the fury of fate.
seeing that the queen was slow.
to give the order to get rid of her suitor.
the goblins decided to take matters into their own hands.
one night as dusk fell.
they slipped out the cracks in the rock.
and clustered round the young chamois hunter.
then they hurled him into the abyss.
the snow queen watched the whole scene from the window.
but there was nothing she could do to stop them.
however her icy heart melted.
and the beautiful cruel fairy suddenly became a woman.
a tear dropped from her eye.
the first she had ever shed.
and the snow queens tear fell on to a stone.
where it turned into a little silvery star.
this was the first edelweiss.
the flower that grows only on the highest most inaccessible.
peaks in the alps on the edge of the abyss and precipice.
once upon a time there lived a stone cutter in a small village.
all day long he worked hard cutting the hard stones.
and making the shape which were needed by his customers.
his hands were hard and his clothes were dirty.
one day he went out to work on a big stone.
it was very hard to work.
and the sun was very hot.
after spending several hours cutting the stone.
he sat down in the shade and soon fell asleep.
after sometime he heard sound of somebody coming.
walking up he saw a long procession of people.
there were many soldiers and attendants.
and in the middle in a palanquin.
carried by strong people at the king.
how wonderful it must be to be the great king.
thought the stone cutter.
how happy i would be if i were the king.
instead of a poor stone cutter.
as he said these words a strange thing happened.
the stone cutter found himself dressed.
in silk clothes and shining jewels.
his hands were soft.
and he was sitting in a comfortable palanquin.
as the afternoon wore on the sun grew hotter.
the king became more and more uncomfortable.
i am powerful it is true.
but how more powerful than sun.
he thought i would rather be the sun than a king.
at once he became the sun.
shining down on the earth.
his new power was hard to control.
he shone too strongly.
he burned up the fields with his rays.
and turned the ocean into vapour.
and formed a great cloud which covered the land.
but no matter how hard he shone.
he could not see through the clouds.
it is obvious that the clouds are even stronger.
and more powerful than sun said the stone cutter.
now the sun i would rather be a cloud.
suddenly he found himself.
turned into a huge dark cloud.
he started using his new power.
he poured rain down on the fields and caused floods.
all the trees and houses were swept away.
but a boulder which once he had been cutting.
when he was a stone cutter and unchanged.
however much he poured down on the stone.
it did not move.
why that rock is more powerful.
than i am said the stone cutter now a cloud.
only a stone cutter could change the rock by his skill.
how i wish i were a stonecutter.
no sooner he said the words.
that he found himself sitting on a stone.
with hard and rough hands.
he picked up his tools.
and set to work on a boulder happily.
once in the royal city there was old woodcutter.
who lived alone with his young daughter.
every day the woodcutter went out to the desert.
to gather camel thorn bushes.
then sold them in the marketplace as firewood.
in this way he earned barely.
enough for the two of them.
one morning the woodcutters daughter said father.
we always have enough to eat.
but just once it would be nice to have something special.
do you think you could buy us some date cakes.
i think i could do that my dear said the woodcutter.
it will just gather some extra wood today.
so the woodcutter walked farther that day.
to gather more thorn bushes.
but he took longer than he meant to.
by the time he got back.
with the wood darkness had fallen.
it was too late to go to the marketplace.
whats more then he reached his house he found.
that his daughter had already bolted.
the front door and gone to bed.
knock as he would there was no answer.
so he had to sleep outside on the doorstep.
next morning the woodcutter awoke.
while it was still dark.
he told himself i might as well go out right.
now and get another big load of wood.
then i can sell twice as much.
and buy even more date cakes.
so he left his load and went back.
to the desert to gather more bushes.
but again he took longer than he meant to.
and when he got back.
it was dark and the door was bolted.
so again he had to sleep on the doorstep.
he awoke once more before dawn.
there is no sense wasting a day he said.
i will go back out for one more big load.
how many date cakes well have then.
but yet again he took to long.
and yet again the door was bolted when he got back.
the woodcutter sank to the doorstep and wept.
whats wrong old man.
he looked up to see a dervish.
in a long green robe.
and a tall green cap.
sir for three days i have gone out.
to gather thorn bushes.
and for three days i have come home too late.
to get into my house.
and in all that time i have had nothing to eat.
what night is this old man.
that is right its the eve of our holy day.
and thats the time of said the woodcutter.
thats right old man the remover of difficulties.
the holy man took some roasted chickpeas.
and raisins from his pouch.
and handed them to the woodcutter.
here share this with me thank you sir.
you may not know it the dervish went on.
but mushkil gusha is already.
if you want your good fortune to continue.
here is what you must do every friday.
find someone in need then share what you have.
and tell a tale of mushkil gusha.
that way you both will be helped.
and with that the holy man vanished.
as the woodcutter stared at the empty spot.
the door to his house swung open.
father where have you been.
please come inside i was so worried.
a few days passed.
while the woodcutter and his daughter enjoyed.
the many date cakes he bought after selling his wood.
then one morning when the woodcutter had gone.
to the desert and his daughter had finished.
her housework she decided to go.
walking in a public park.
she was strolling down a broad path.
when a carriage stopped beside her.
what a pretty little girl.
said a royal young lady.
i am the daughter of the king.
would you like to be my handmaiden.
yes your highness the girl said blushing.
so the woodcutters daughter.
became a handmaiden of the princess.
with the gifts the princess gave her.
she and her father became quite rich.
he bought a nice house.
and he did not have to gather thorn bushes any more.
but somehow he forgot what the dervish told him.
a month went by one day the princess went.
on a picnic to one of her fathers private gardens.
and she brought along the woodcutters daughter.
there was a small lake there.
so they decided to go for a swim.
the princess took off her necklace.
and hung it on a branch overlooking the water.
but when she came out she forgot all about it.
a few days later at the palace.
the princess looked for the necklace.
but could not find it.
she turned angrily to the woodcutters daughter.
you stole my necklace.
you must have taken it when we went for our swim.
no your highness i would not do that.
you are a thief and a liar too.
i will show you what happens to people of your kind.
get out of my sight.
the woodcutters daughter ran home in tears.
but an hour later soldiers came to the door.
they arrested the woodcutter.
and carried him off to a public.
square in front of the prison.
then they locked his feet in the stocks.
and left him there.
the woodcutter had to suffer the taunts.
and jeers of the passersby.
some people were kinder though.
and even threw him scraps of food.
now that evening was friday eve.
as the sun set the woodcutter cast his thoughts.
over all that had happened to him in the past weeks.
all at once he cried out.
oh what a foolish ungrateful wretch.
i am did not the dervish say to share.
what i have each friday eve and tell.
yet i have not done it once.
just then a packet of chickpeas.
and raisins landed by the woodcutter.
when he looked up he did not see who had thrown it.
but he did see a beggar boy coming by.
young friend called the woodcutter.
please share this with me while i tell you a story.
the boy sat down and gratefully took what was offered.
as he ate the woodcutter related.
everything that had happened.
from when his daughter asked for date cakes to.
when he was put in the stocks.
thank you sir said the boy.
i needed the food.
and the story was good too.
i hope it has a happy ending.
the beggar boy went on his way.
but had only gone a block.
when a rich merchant stopped him.
my one and only son.
ever since you were stolen at birth looked for.
that birthmark on your left cheek.
now at last i have found you.
but they leave our story here.
the next day the princess had another picnic.
in her fathers private garden.
and again she went down to the lake for a swim.
she was about to step into the water.
when she saw the reflection of her necklace.
she looked up into the tree.
and there was the necklace itself right.
where she had left it.
that woodcutters daughter did not take it at all.
by the end of the day.
the woodcutter was free from the stocks.
and his daughter was back in the palace.
and every friday after that the woodcutter always remembered.
mistress pennington ran to pick up the mail.
tommy was watching the shutters open.
he said may i go outside be careful she said.
its so windy today tommy crawled down.
from the window seat and ran to the door.
he opened it with a bang.
the wind blew fiercely and snatched the newly recovered mail.
from mistress penningtons hands and blew it.
even further into the house.
tommy ran outside and the door slammed shut.
outside yellow gold and red leaves were leaping from.
swaying trees landing on the roof jumping off the roof.
and then chasing one another down the street.
tommy watched in fascination.
if i was a leaf i would fly.
clear across the world tommy thought.
and then ran out into the yard among the swirl of colours.
pennington came to the front porch.
tommy i have your jacket please put it on.
however there was no tommy in the front yard.
he was blowing down the street with the rest of his playmates.
a maple leaf came close by touched him.
and moved ahead tommy met him shortly brushed against him.
and moved further ahead they swirled.
around and around hit cars and poles.
flew up into the air and then down again.
this is fun tommy thought.
the maple leaf blew in front of him.
it was bright red with well defined veins.
the sunlight shone through it giving it a brilliance.
never before seen by a little boys eyes.
where do you think we are going.
tommy asked the leaf does it matter.
the leaf replied have fun life is short.
i beg to differ an older leaf said suddenly.
coming beside them the journey may be short.
but the end is the beginning.
tommy pondered this the best a leaf could ponder.
where do we end up if the wind blows you.
in that direction the old leaf said.
if you are blown in that direction you will fly high.
into the air and see things that no leaf has seen before.
follow me to the city dump the maple leaf said.
most of my friends are there.
the wind blew tommy and the maple leaf along.
tommy thought of his choices.
he wanted to continue to play.
i will go with you to the dump.
the winds shifted and tommy.
and the leaf were blown.
in the direction of the city dump.
the old leaf did not follow.
he was blown further down the block.
and suddenly lifted up high into the air.
he called out the sights up here.
they are spectacular come and see.
tommy and the maple leaf ignored him.
i see something i see the dump.
the old leaf cried out i see smoke come up here.
i see fire i see nothing the maple leaf said.
tommy saw the fence that surrounded the city dump.
he was happy to be with his friend.
they would have fun in the dump.
a car pulled up it was tommys mom.
mistress pennington was not about to let her.
little boy run into the city dump.
not so fast she said getting out of the car.
you are not allowed to play in there.
do not you see the smoke.
tommy watched the maple leaf blow against.
the wall and struggle to get over.
he ran over to get it.
but was unable to reach it.
mistress pennington walked over and took the leaf.
she put it in her pocket.
there she said it will be safe.
until we get home tommy smiled ran to the car.
and got in he rolled down the back window.
and looked up into the sky.
he wondered the old leaf had gone perhaps.
one day he would see what the old leaf had.
a man hired an ass from another man.
he paid him two shillings to lend him.
the ass for the day it was a very hot day.
and both men wanted to stand in the ass shadow.
so that they might be cool.
but there was only room for one of them.
go away said the man who had hired the ass.
go away it is my shadow today.
i have hired the ass.
you hired the ass said the owner.
but you did not hire his shadow.
it is my shadow they went on the saying.
one thing and the owner saying the other.
then they began to fight.
and while they were fighting.
one of them happened to hit the ass.
then the ass ran away.
and it took its shadow with it.
a mouse was having a very bad time.
she could find no food at all.
she look here and there but there was no food.
and she very thin.
at last the mouse found a basket full of corn.
there was a small hole in the basket.
and she crept in she could just.
get through the hole.
then she began to eat the corn.
being very hungry she ate a great deal.
and went on eating and eating.
she had grown very fat before she felt.
that she had had enough.
when the mouse tried to climb out of the basket.
she could not she was too fat.
to pass through the hole.
how shall i climb out said the mouse.
just then a rat came along.
and he heard the mouse.
mouse said the rat if you want to climb out.
of the basket you must wait till.
you have grown as thin.
as you were when you went in.
in a thick bamboo jungle.
two young pandas had started their new life.
both of them were very cute and chubby.
they were born only a few days ago.
their mother had lovingly them jackey and mickey.
jackey and mickey were pretty young and weak.
they were not even big enough.
to take care of themselves.
therefore their mother said kids.
you are growing now you should be able to.
differentiate between a friend and a foe.
mother who are friends and foes.
asked jackey and mickey.
one who helps us and stands by us.
in all our odds is our friend.
and one who harms us kills innocent animals.
and birds is our enemy.
do you understand anything asked their mother.
yes mother we do understand.
we will maintain a safe distance.
from our enemies and not even.
let them come near us.
jackey and mickey assured their mother.
good my children i was expecting the same.
understanding from both of you.
now i can leave you alone as you have grown wise.
said their mother and she gave her children a hug.
the next day mother panda went to visit her sister.
she left jackey and mickey alone and went away.
all this while a hyena was keeping.
an evil eye on jackey and mickey.
he was looking for a right opportunity.
for the past few days.
the hyenas mouth watered when he saw the young.
and chubby pandas with their mother away.
the hyena found that much awaited opportunity.
the hyena came near the bamboo.
and said hello friends.
what are you doing on the bamboo.
come near me i will sing you a song.
and take you both for a jungle ride.
the pandas were surprised to hear the hyena.
on seeing the dangerous looking hyena down below.
jackey whispered this cannot be our friend.
he has a big teeth our mother had asked us.
to stay away from enemies we have to be careful.
and do not have to go near the hyena.
on hearing what jackey had to say mickey cried aloud.
you wicked hyena you are our enemy.
you want to eat us to satisfy your hunger.
we will never get down are you out of your mind.
believe me i am not your enemy i am your friend.
the hyena tried to convince the young pandas.
mickey heard the hyena and understood clearly.
that his intentions were not correct.
he thought this devil will not leave us peacefully.
we have to think about some other trick.
to get rid of him for some time.
suddenly his eyes fell on the bamboo.
and he said our mother had advised us.
not to make friends with anybody till.
flowers bloomed on the bamboo.
so you will have to wait till the bamboo flowers.
all right then i will wait.
all the young children should obey their mothers.
said crooked hyena grimacing.
the hyena realized that his luring.
the young pandas had backfired.
totally dejected he went away.
jackey and mickey heaved a sigh of relief.
as the hyena went away.
they once again got busy eating.
fresh soft leaves of bamboo.
the flowers bloomed on the bamboo.
within a weeks time.
the hyenas happiness knew no bounds.
the tortoise walked and walked.
never ever stopping until he came to the finish line.
the animals who were watching.
cheered so loudly for tortoise.
that they woke up hare.
the hare stretched and yawned and began to run again.
but it was too late.
tortoise was already over the line.
slow wins the race.
patty the milkmaid was going to market.
carrying her milk in a pail on her head.
as she went along she began calculating.
what she would do with the monkey.
she would get for the milk.
i will buy some fowls from farmer brown she said.
and they will lay eggs each morning.
which i will sell to the persons wife.
with the money that i get from the sale of these egg
i will buy myself a new dimity frock and a chip hat.
and when i go to market.
would not all the young men come up.
and speak to mepolly show will be so jealous.
but i do not care i shall just look at her.
and toss my head like this.
as she spoke that she tossed her head back.
and the pail fell off it and all the milk was spilt.
do not count your chickens before they are hatched.
one day in a heavily crowded place.
a young man was shouting at the crowd.
people look at me.
i have the most beautiful heart in the word.
many people looked at him.
to see the beautiful heart in a perfect shape.
no little flaw which looked quite amazing.
most of the people who saw his heart.
the beauty of his heart and praised him.
however there came an old man.
and challenged the young man no my son.
i have got the most beautiful heart in the world.
the young man asked show me your heart then.
the old man showed his heart to him.
it was very rough uneven.
and had scars all over the heart.
also the heart was not in shape appeared like bits.
and pieces joined together in various colours.
there were some rough edges.
some part of the heart were removed.
and filled with other pieces.
the heart of the old man simply looked like.
various pieces of heart joined together.
and formed as a heart.
the young man started laughing at his heart.
my dear old man are you mad.
see my heart how beautiful and flawless it is.
you cannot find even a bit of imperfection in my heart.
see yours it is full of scars wounds and blemishes.
how can you say your heart is beautiful.
my heart it just so beautiful as your heart is.
did you see the scars.
each scar represents the love i shared with a person.
i share a piece of heart with others when i share love.
and in return i get a piece of heart.
which i fix at the place.
where i had torn a piece said the old man.
the young man was shocked.
and the old man continued.
since the pieces of heart i shared.
neither equal nor in the same shape or size.
my heart is full of uneven edges and bits and pieces.
my heart is not in shape.
because sometimes i never get the love.
in return from those i gave it.
so where do you see the real beauty.
your heart which looks fresh.
and fuller with no scars which indicates.
you never shared love with anybody.
the young man stood still and never spoke a word.
tears rolled down his cheeks.
he walked to the old man.
tore a piece of his heart.
and gave the piece to the old man.
many give importance and respect to physical beauty.
yet physical appearance is not the real beauty.
once upon a time there was a man who had a big garden.
he had planted many fruit trees.
and cared for them till they bear fruits.
and sell them to make money for his family.
one fine day while picking the fruits with his son.
the man saw a stranger sitting.
on the branch of a tree and picking the fruits.
this man become angry and shouted.
what are you doing on my tree.
are not you ashamed of stealing fruits in the day time.
the stranger on the branch just looked at the gardener.
but did not reply and continued picking the fruits.
the gardener was very angry and shouted again.
for a whole year i have taken care of these trees.
you have no right to take.
the fruits without any permission so come down at once.
the stranger on the tree answered.
why should i come down.
this is the garden of god and i am the servant of god.
so i have the right to pick these fruits.
and you should interfere.
between the work of god and his servant.
the gardener was very surprised at this answer.
and thought of a plan he told his son.
go and bring a rope and get this man down from the tree.
his son brought the rope and the gardener ordered him.
to tie the stranger to the tree.
the gardener then took a stick.
and started beating the stranger.
the stranger began to spring.
why are you beating me.
you have no right to do this.
the gardener paid no attention.
and continued beating him the stranger screamed.
do not you fear god you are beating an innocent man.
the gardener answered why should i fear.
this wood in my hand belongs to god.
and i am too the servant of god.
so i have nothing to fear.
and you should interfere.
with the work of god and his servant.
the stranger hesitated and then spoke.
wait do not beat me i am sorry for taking the fruits.
this is your garden and i should seek your permission.
before taking the fruits so please forgive and set me free.
the gardener smiled and said.
since you have now realized your mistake.
i will forgive you but remember.
that god has given all his servants brains.
so every persons deeds are in his own hands.
then the gardener untied him and let him go free.
the night fell heavy in the heights of the mountains.
and the man could not see anything.
all was black zero visibility.
and the moon and the stars were covered by the clouds.
as he was climbing only a few feet.
away from the top of the mountain.
he slipped and fell in to the air.
falling at great speed.
he could only see black spots as he went down.
and the terrible sensation of being sucked by gravity.
he kept falling and in the moments of great fear.
it came to his mind all the good.
and bad episodes of his life.
he was thinking now about how close death was getting.
when all of a sudden he felt the rope.
tied to his waist pull him very hard.
his body was hanging in the air.
only the rope was holding him.
and in that moment of stillness.
he had no other choice other to scream help me god.
all of a sudden a deep voice coming from the sky answered.
what do you want me to do.
you really think i can save you.
of course i believe you can.
then cut the rope tied.
there was a moment of silence.
and the man decided to hold on.
to the rope with all his strength.
the rescue team tells that the next day.
a climber was found dead and frozen.
his body hanging from a rope.
his hands holding tight to it.
only one foot away from the ground.
and we how attached we are to our rope will we let go.
do not ever doubt about the words of god.
so even if i eat in my mouth.
it will go into our stomach.
the other head asked.
but i wanted to taste the fruit.
you should give me.
the first head replied in anger.
i only saw the fruit.
and i have the right to eat it.
without sharing with anyone.
the depressed second head.
became very sad and went silent.
a few days later while the bird was flying.
the second head saw a beautiful pink fruit in a tree.
it flew down near the tree.
and was trying to pick the fruit and eat it.
the other birds said dont eat it.
it is a poisonous fruit it will make you die.
the first head shouted dont eat it.
the second head did not listen to the first head.
the second head said i will eat it.
because i saw it.
the first head shouted please dont eat it.
we will all die.
the second head since i saw it.
i have the right to eat it.
it will go to our stomach only.
the fruit was eaten by the second head.
and in a few minutes.
the strange bird with two heads died.
avoid quarrel in a family.
it was a sunny day.
but the climate was enjoyable.
everyone in the railway station was waiting.
for the train to arrive.
among the crowd there was a group of friends.
youngsters who were on board for vacation.
it was a busy station with juice shop.
mobile restaurants coffee and tea stalls.
newspaper shop restaurants etcetera.
the announcement regarding the arrival.
the train was made and everyone prepared.
to get into the train to their appropriate places.
the group of friends made loud noise.
to welcome the train as it entered the station.
they ran to get their reserved seats.
before anyone could get into the train.
the empty seats were filled.
and the train whistled to move.
an old man with a young boy aged around fifteen years.
came running to catch the train.
they entered the train.
and the train started to move.
they had their seats just adjacent to the friends group.
the young boy was so surprised to see everything.
he acclaimed at his father.
dad the train is moving.
and the things are moving backwards.
his father smiled and nodded his head.
as the train started moving fast.
the young boy again screamed.
dad the trees are green in colour.
and run backward very fast.
his father said yes dear and smiled.
just like a kid he was watching everything.
with great enthusiasm and happiness.
loaded with tons of surprises.
a fruit seller passed selling apples and oranges.
the young boy asked his dad.
i want to eat apples.
his father bought him apples.
he said apple looks so sweet than it tastes.
i love this colour.
the group was watching.
all the activities of this boy.
and asked the boys father.
is your son having any problem.
why is he behaving very differently.
a friend from the group made fun of him.
and shouted his son is mad i think.
the father of the young boy.
with patience replied to the friend group.
my son was born blind.
only a few days before he was operated.
and got the vision.
he is seeing various things.
in his life for the first time.
the young friends became very quiet.
and apologized to his father and son.
think before you speak.
minnu is a sweet.
lovable and beautiful girl aged six years.
she is an adorable kid.
as she obeys every word of the elders.
minnus parents loved her for her amazing behaviour.
one day her mother took her to grocery shopping.
as they passed the shops.
minnu noted a cute pearl necklace in pink.
she asked her mother to buy her the necklace.
her mother it cost a few pennies.
and she asked her to do some chores.
so that for every complicated work.
minnu will get some money.
and she could buy the pink necklace.
minnu prepared a to do list.
and assisted with all the chores.
her maam was so happy.
and she paid enough money to buy the pink necklace.
minnu happily purchased the desired necklace.
and wore it just everywhere.
every time except while taking bath.
her maam told that her neck would turn pink.
and the pearls would lose its shine.
if she wore it while bathing.
she wore it even while sleeping.
minnu was known for her kindness.
and respect to elders.
her dad wanted to play with her.
her daddy used to tell her bed time stories frequently.
one day after completing a story.
her dad asked how much she loved him.
minnu replied you know how much i love you.
dad asked then give me pearl necklace please.
minnu replied please daddy.
i love you so much but please dont ask pearls.
i will give you the pink barbie.
which you bought me a month ago.
dad replied fine sweetheart and left.
conversation was held between minnu and her dad.
again minnu refused to give her pearl necklace.
and instead asked her dad to take her pet.
dad kissed her and left with smile.
this conversation was repeated several times.
pink pearl necklace one day.
she slept while her dad was reading her a story.
as he was about to leave her room.
minnu in her sleep said here dad.
please dont take the pearl necklace.
she was holding the necklace in her hands.
her dad with a big smile gently.
without disturbing her sleep.
took off the pearl necklace from her hand.
the next moment she woke up.
she asked dad what are you doing.
your pearl necklace had fallen on the floor.
i was just picking.
hiding the plastic necklace taken by minnus hand.
immediately opened the jewel box placed near her bed.
handed over the real and precious pearl necklace.
minnu said here is your necklace.
she replied thank you dad.
minnus dad had been trying for a long time.
to make her give up the cheap pearl necklace for the real one.
finally she gave up fake and grabbed the real one.
god wants us to give up all those fake.
and cheap things we hold very preciously in our life.
it can be habits hatreds harming relationships.
activities negative thoughts etc.
he will provide us genuine things to give up the fake.
kim and ray were very close companions.
they were neighbours studied together.
completed their graduation and worked together.
they planned to enjoy a vacation.
and took a sea voyage to explore different places.
unfortunately their ship wrecked in the middle of the ocean.
while most of the travellers were unable to secure their life.
only kim and ray who were able to swim.
he could save their life by reaching an isolated island.
they were very happy and thanked god for saving them.
however the island looked like a deserted island.
with hardly any trees and poor atmosphere.
that no living organism could survive.
they have no option.
other than praying to god to save their lives.
kim and ray sincerely prayed to god.
nothing happened even after a couple of days.
they decided to split their ways.
into opposite ends of the island.
and challenged themselves about whose prayer would be powerful.
and offered their prayers to god.
kim prayed god that he would need food to survive.
surprisingly he got a pile of food.
fruits and vegetables on the sea shore.
he requested for a beautiful girl as his wife.
as he was feeling very lonely in the island.
in a few hours a ship wrecked again in the island.
where only a beautiful girl was alive.
he married the girl.
he requested for food and shelter.
all prayers of kim were addressed by god.
it was almost a month after the ship wreck.
and kim decided to move back in his home town.
he prayed god to send him a ship to take him home.
surprisingly a ship came and took him and his wife.
just before the ship was about to move a voice appeared.
are you going alone leaving your companion of life here.
kim was surprised may i know who is this.
and whom are you referring to.
i have my wife with me.
the voice said i am the one whom.
you offered your prayers.
whom you requested to save your life.
whom you requested food.
and shelter and of course a wife.
kim happily stood on his knees.
and said thank you god.
then god said but why do you leave your companion here.
kim was confused again.
then god added do not get so excited my son.
your prayers are not answered and fulfilled by me.
i was only fulfilling rays prayers.
he prayed only one thing to me.
he said please fulfil all the prayers of kim.
and it is my only prayer to you.
kim was in tears.
and rushed to the other side of the island.
he realized that he did not even think.
about his best friend ray.
he was happily enjoying life with all pleasures.
he could not find ray there.
and asked god where he was.
god replied i took him with me.
the man with the golden heart should be with me.
but i will fulfil all your prayers.
as i promised him to do so.
kim was completely broken.
he realized that his friends prayers were more powerful.
before several centuries.
there was a very large dense and dark forest.
a group of monkeys arrived at the forest.
and the monkeys struggled hard.
to survive the freezing cold nights.
they were hunting for fire to get warm.
one night they saw a firefly.
and considered it a dab of fire.
all the monkeys in the group shouted.
fire fire fire yeah we got fire.
a couple of monkeys tried.
to catch the firefly and it escaped.
they were sad as they could not catch the fire.
they were talking to themselves.
that they couldnot live in the cold.
if they didnot get the fire.
the next night again they saw many fireflies.
after several attempts.
the monkeys caught a few fireflies.
they put the fireflies in a hole dug in the land.
and tried to blow the flies.
they blew the flies very hard without.
knowing the fact that they were flies.
an owl was watching the activities of the monkeys.
the owl reached the monkeys and told them.
hey those are not fire they are flies.
you would not be able to make fire from it.
the monkeys laughed at the owl.
one monkey replied the owl.
hey old owl you dont know anything.
about how to make fire dont disturb us.
the owl warned the monkeys again.
and asked them to stop their foolish act.
monkeys you cannot make fire from the flies.
please hear my words.
the monkeys tried to make fire from the flies.
the owl told them again to stop their foolish act.
you are struggling so much.
go take your shelter in a nearby cave.
you can save yourself from the freezing cold.
you wont get fire.
one monkey shouted at the owl.
and the owl left the place.
the monkeys were simply doing the foolish activity.
for several hours and it was almost midnight.
they were very tired and realized.
the words of the owl were correct.
and they were trying to blow a fly.
they sheltered themselves at the cave.
and escaped from the cold.
we may go wrong many times.
and should seek and accept the advice.
suggestions provided by others.
an old man was living with his three sons.
in a deserted village located in the vicinity of a desert.
he earned for his life with his seventeen camels.
he used to rent out camels.
as means of shipping in the desert.
one day he passed away and he had a will.
leaving his assets for his three sons.
after all the funeral obligations.
the three sons read the will.
while he divided all the properties.
he had into three equal parts.
he divided the seventeen camels in a different way.
it was not shared equally among the three.
as seventeen is an odd number and prime number.
which cannot be divided.
the deceased old man stated.
the eldest son will own half of the seventeen camels.
and the middle one will get.
the one third of the seventeen camels.
and the youngest one will get.
his share of camel as one ninth.
all of them were stunned to read the will.
and questioned how to divide seventeen camels.
as mentioned in the will.
it neither possible to divide seventeen camels.
and the half of the seventeen camels to the eldest one.
nor able to divide the camels to the other two sons.
they spent several days to divide the camel.
but none could find the answer.
they finally took this issue.
to the wise man in their village.
the wise man heard the problem.
and instantly found a solution.
he asked them to bring all seventeen camels.
to divide them as intended by their father.
the sons brought the camels to the place.
the wise man added a camel owned by him.
and made it count eighteen.
now he asked the first son to read the will.
he get half the camels.
which now counts to eighteen divided by two is nine camels.
the eldest one got nine camels as his share.
remaining camels left nine camels.
the wise man asked the second son to read the will.
he was assigned a share of one third of the total camels.
it comes to eighteen divided by three is six camels.
second son got six camels as his share.
total camels shared by the elder sons fifteen camels.
we should never say that he has forgotten us.
one hot day a thirsty crow flew.
all over the fields looking for water.
for a long time she could not find any.
she felt very weak almost giving up hope.
suddenly she saw a water jug below her.
she flew straight down to see.
if there was any water inside.
yes she could see some water inside the jug.
the crow tried to push her head into the jug.
sadly she found that the neck of the jug was too narrow.
then she tried to push the jug down.
for the water to flow out.
she found that the jug was too heavy.
the crow thought hard for a while.
then looking around her she saw some pebbles.
she suddenly had a good idea.
she started picking up the pebbles one by one.
dropping each into the jug.
as more and more pebbles filled the jug.
the water level kept rising.
soon it was high enough for the crow to drink.
her plan had worked.
if you try hard enough.
you may soon find an answer to your problem.
there was a green and fresh pasture.
in which three cows lived a white cow a black cow.
and a reddish brown one the cows were kind to each other.
they were nice to each other.
they used to graze in the meadow together.
and they used to sleep near each other.
till it happened one day the reddish brown coloured lion.
of the forest happened to pass that way.
the lion was unhappy it was hungry.
the lion was looking for a prey.
on catching sight of the cows it became glad.
but could not attack them.
because they were together.
so the lion sat in a corner.
and waited till the cows would separate from each other.
the cows were together.
and would not part away from each other.
because they knew that if they were together.
no predator could attack them.
the lion lay in ambush nearby for two or three days.
but the cows continued to remain together.
and would not separate from each other.
the lion became unhappy a plan occurred to it.
it went towards the cows greeted them and said.
how are you my friends are you fine.
i have been remembering you for a long time.
but because i am too busy.
i can not come to you and ask about your health.
today i said to myself any how i should come.
and see you from near and visit you.
the cow said sir your coming has really pleased us.
and brightened our pasture.
the lion said i have always remembered you.
and have ever ordered a better pasture.
made ready for you reddish brown cow said.
sir you have really obliged us.
and we are very thankful to you.
both the white and the black cows were troubled.
by what the reddish brown cow said.
and were grieved at its thoughtlessness.
they feared lest it should be deceived.
they said to each other.
which forest has not got a better pasture.
they does the reddish brown cow believe what the lion says.
does not it know that lions seek.
other animals only to prey on them.
the reddish brown cow became more.
and more a close friend of the lion each day.
the black cow and the white cow advised it.
as much as they could but with no avail.
one day the lion said to the reddish brown cow.
you know that the colour of our bodies is dark.
and that the colour of the body of the white cow is light.
and you also know that the light colour.
is the opposite of the dark colour.
it could be very good if i eat the white cow.
so that there will be no difference among us any longer.
and that we will be able to live together well.
the reddish brown cow accepted.
the saying of the selfish lion.
and started talking to the black cow to kept it busy.
so that the lion could eat the white cow with more ease.
the white cow was left alone and was killed.
while the others cows were busy with idle talks.
two or three days passed.
since the lion had devoured the white cow.
the lion angry and uneasy was lying in a corner.
and the reddish brown cow was moving.
around the lion and grazing.
the lion called the reddish brown cow.
the cow answered yes sir.
the lion said the colour of my body.
and the colour of your body are reddish brown.
and black does not go with our colour.
it will be very good if i eat the black cow.
in this forest we all will be of the same colour.
the reddish brown cow accepted.
and moved away from the black cow.
the lion attacked and devoured the black cow too.
and as for the reddish brown cow.
it was so filled with joy.
that it did not know what to do.
it roamed and grazed and said to itself.
it is only me who has the colour of the lion.
a few days passed since the black cow.
had been devoured by the lion.
the lion roared and said reddish brown cow where are you.
the reddish brown cow shaking with fear.
went forward and said yes sir the lion said.
today it is your turn get yourself ready.
i am going to eat you.
the reddish brown cow with great fear and horror said.
why sir i am your friend.
i did whatever you said.
so why do you want to eat me.
the lion roared and said friend of a friendless.
how is it possible that a lion makes friendship with a cow.
no matter how much the reddish brown cow begged and entreated.
the lion did not accept its words.
the lion attacked the cow.
the cow said please allow me to cry out.
three times before you eat me.
the lion said quickly quickly.
the reddish brown cow cried out.
i was eaten the very day the white cow was eaten.
i was eaten the very day the black cow was eaten.
i was eaten the very day i made with you.
the lion devoured the reddish brown cow very quickly.
then it said to itself.
i have finished my job in this forest.
now i had better go to another forest.
divide and rule policy.
it was a little lamb accompanied by a flock of sheep.
to a grazing land as the flock was grazing the green grass.
the little lamb which was so mischievous.
was wandering here and there.
it saw fresh grass at a distance.
and separated from the crew to enjoy the fresh bites.
it came across a long way from its group.
and was eating the fresh and delicious grass.
to visit places of historical importance.
and piligrim centres at distant places.
they decided to travel by foot.
to interact with his people and accompany them.
people of distant places were so happy.
to have a conversation with their king.
and they were proud.
that their king was so kind with a good heart.
after several weeks he returned to the palace.
he was quite happy.
that he visited many piligrim centres.
and could see his fellow people.
leading a propitious life.
however he had regret.
he had intolerable pain in his feet.
as it was his first trip by foot to longer distance.
he complained to his ministers.
that the roads were not comfortable and were very stony.
he could not tolerate the pain.
as he walked all the way through the rough path.
he said he was very much worried.
about the people who used to walk.
along those roads as it would be painfull for them too.
he made an order to cover the road.
of the whole country with leather.
so that people might feel comfortable immediately.
the king thought that he had to change.
this for the betterment and happiness of the people.
his ministers were stunned to hear his order.
as it would destroy the lion of thousands of cows.
to get the sufficient quantity of leather.
and it would cost a huge amount of money also.
a wise man from the ministry came to the king.
and said that he had another idea.
the king asked what was his alternative idea.
the minister told why do you want to kill.
the holy animal cow to cover the road with leather.
rather you can just have a piece of leather.
cut in appropriate shape to cover your feet.
the king was very much surprised.
by his suggestion and applauded the minister.
he ordered for a pair of leather shoes for him.
and requested the countrymen to wear shoes.
many of us criticize the world for many things.
we curse and blame the things in our surroundings.
and never understand that we need a change in us.
changes are inevitable in the world.
and the changes should be from us.
we cannot or should not force others to make a change.
this is a short story about how hard work rewards.
there was an old man living in his village.
he had four sons and they were very lazy.
the old man fell sick.
and was counting his last days in bed.
he worried a lot about his sons future.
as the young men hesitated a lot to work.
the sons believed that luck would favour them.
the old mans health deteriorated every day.
and decided to talk to his sons about their future.
however his sons did not listen to him.
the old man played a trick.
to let their sons realize the importance of work.
one day the old man called all his sons.
and let them sit near him in his bed.
he said he had a treasure box with gold coins.
and expensive gems for them.
and wanted to share the treasure equally.
and lead a happy prosperous life.
the young men were very happy.
and asked where his father placed the treasure.
the old man replied them i cannot exactly remember the place.
where i had hidden the treasure from the others.
however the treasure box is buried in our land.
i am really not sure about the place.
where i had hidden the treasure box.
even though the lazy young sons were happy.
they were sad that the old man forgot the place.
where the treasure was hidden.
after a few days the old man died.
the sons decided to dig the land to find the treasure box.
they worked very hard and dug their land.
they could not find any treasure box in the land.
they decided to dig a spot in their land.
that remained a bit difference from the rest of the area.
the sons believed that the treasure was buried in that spot.
they dug the specific spot so deeply got nothing but water.
a passer by who noticed the dug land.
and water flowing from a spot.
talked to the sons about agriculture.
they sowed vegetable seeds and planted greens.
and flower plants in their land.
since the land became very fertile.
with abundant water within a few weeks.
the land became a fertile garden.
with nutritious vegetables and greens.
the young sons sold the vegetables at a good price.
and earned a good amount of money.
then they realized that it was the hard work.
that was mentioned as treasure box by their father.
they defeated their laziness.
worked hard earned more money and lived happily.
hard work always pay.
once upon a time there lived a strange bird.
with two heads facing opposite directions.
the two heads used to fight.
and argue with each even for very simple reasons.
while they shared the same body.
the two heads behaved like rivals.
the strange bird lived in a big banyan tree.
along the bank of a river.
one day while flying over the river.
one head of the bird found a beautiful tree.
with a fruit in bright red colour.
one head of the bird wanted to eat the fruit.
and the bird flew down to pick the fruit from the tree.
the bird plucked the sweet smelling fruit.
and sat by the banks of the river.
and started eating it.
the fruit was eaten by one head.
which saw the fruit from the sky.
the head that ate part praised the fruit.
so much as the fruit was very tasty.
while eating the other head asked the first head.
can you give me a piece to taste it.
the first head said we are having only one stomach.
the third son read his share of camel.
one ninth of total camels eighteen divided by nine is two camels.
the youngest one got two camels as his share.
totally there were nine six and two camels.
shared by the brothers which counts to seventeen camels.
one camel brought by the wise man was taken back.
the wise man solved this problem.
smartly with this intelligence.
intelligence is nothing.
but finding a common ground to solve an issue.
every problem has a solution.
A merchant loaded his donkey with bags of salt.
The merchant and his donkey were walking along together.
They had not walked far when they reached a river on the road.
Unfortunately the donkey slipped and fell into the river.
The donkey noticed the bags of salt loaded on his back.
There was nothing the merchant could do.
he loaded his donkey with more bags of salt.
they reached the slippery riverbank.
now deliberately the donkey fell into the river.
and wasted all the bags of salt on his back again.
The merchant quickly discovered the donkey trick.
He then returned home again.
he then reloaded his donkey with bags of sponges.
The foolish tricky donkey again set on its way.
On reaching the river he again fell into the water.
But instead of the load becoming lighter it became heavier.
You foolish donkey your trick had been discovered.
Those who are too clever sometimes overreach themselves.
It was two days before Christmas.
I was busy building a snowman.
Fritz appeared with his little niece Emily and introduced her.
Emily is from the South and has never seen snow before.
She does not know much about our winters.
It turned out Emily also did not know much about Christmas.
She asked me shivering in the cold air.
Santa Claus I explained brings presents and joys to childrens.
Does he also bring presents to animal children Emily asked.
I said he has not been around this part of the forest for years.
I guess he is too busy visiting all the human childrens.
Do you think he will come if I write to him Emily asked.
I do not think so said Monty.
I have never seen him myself.
Neither have I Harry added shaking his head.
You see Santa Claus is only for human children.
Let us forget about the whole idea.
Let us go home now before we catch a cold.
The next morning I saw Emily pulling Fritz towards the mailbox.
I wrote a letter to Santa Claus she said waving a large envelope.
and I asked him to come and bring me a present.
But do not get your hopes up to high.
I do not want you to be disappointed if he does not come.
He will you will see Emily cried.
Poor Emily I thought as Christmas Day was tomorrow.
She was setting herself up for a big disappointment.
If Emily wanted to see Santa she would I decided.
I bought a few things for a surprise.
I was very pleased with my idea.
I could hardly wait to see Emily eyes.
The next day I got up very early to get ready.
I put on the red Santa Claus suit that I had bought.
I looked at myself in the mirror.
Even my own mother would not have recognized me.
I put on my boots and tried out a few Ho ho hos.
Then off I went carrying a present for Emily.
I noticed many other tracks in the snow.
It was leading to his front door.
It is strange that I did not get an invitation I thought.
Santa is always welcome on a day like this.
I could hear little Emily footsteps coming to the door.
Hi Waldo Emily cried as she opened the door.
I am so happy you could come too.
We were expecting you Please come in.
Expecting me Waldo How did she know it was me.
did not I look like Santa Clause.
I did not even have time to try out any of my Ho ho hos.
I followed her into the living room.
There were Cornelius and Harry sitting on the sofa.
And each one was dressed up as Santa Claus.
We did not want Emily to be disappointed Monty explained.
I thought of the same surprise.
Merry Christmas to all of you said Emily.
Soon Emily opened all her presents.
There was a beautiful jacket given by Fritz.
A pair of warm winter pants given by Monty.
A woolen cap from Harry and mittens from Cornelius.
Then Emily opened my gift and said Oh red boots.
Suddenly there was a loud knock at the door.
Who could that be asked Fritz as Everybody is here already.
By the time Fritz opened the door the visitor had already left.
We could see the back of his sleigh disappearing behind the snow.
Look he brought me a present Emily said.
She pointed to a beautiful red sled.
Hanging format was a label that read from Santa Claus.
I knew he would come I knew it cried Emily.
Emily danced around her new sled happily.
This was certainly one of the best Christmas Days we had ever had.
Emily enjoyed riding on her special sled.
It was a cold and silent night the weather was freezing.
They were clinging to the branches of the tree.
One of the monkeys said I wish we could find some fire.
It will help to keep warm.
and Suddenly they noticed a flock of fireflies.
One day of the young monkeys thought it was fire.
He caught a firefly and put it under a dry leaf.
Some other monkeys also joined in his effort.
The monkeys were sitting on the same tree.
She noticed what they were doing.
She said Hey that is a firefly not real fire.
I think you should take shelter in a cave.
The monkeys did not listen to the sparrow.
They continued to blow at our poor firefly.
After some time the monkeys became very tired.
Now they realized what the sparrow had said was correct.
They set free the firefly and moved to a nearby cave.
Bunny rabbit lived in the forest and had many friends.
One day Bunny rabbit heard the loud barking of the wild dogs.
He was very scared and decided to ask for help.
He quickly went to his friend deer.
He said Dear friend some wild dogs are chasing me.
Can you chase them away with your sharp antlers.
But I am busy Why do not you ask bear to help.
Bunny rabbit ran to the bear.
My dear friend you are very strong please help me.
Some wild dogs are after me.
Please chase them away he requested the bear.
I am hungry and tired and need some food.
Please ask the monkey for help.
Poor Bunny went to the all his friends.
Bunny felt sad that nobody was ready to help him.
He understood that he has to think of a way out.
He lay still the wild dogs went their way.
Raj is a middle aged man born in a poor family.
He was raised well by his father and mother.
His father owned a welding shop.
He used to work for more than 12 hours a day.
He used to work for more than twelve hours a day.
Raj father could not earn enough money.
He could not provide a luxurious living to his family.
Raj was an average student in his school.
I used to score around seventy percent marks.
Raj dream was to become a doctor.
his marks were not very high.
he could not get the desired course he wanted to study.
He joined a bachelor degree course and got a job.
His life was going on with no dramatic change.
His father was still working in his welding shop.
After getting a permanent job Raj parents wanted him to marry.
He got married to a lady from his native town.
he also got promoted in his job.
After a few years he had beautiful twin boys.
Raj began to earn a handsome salary.
Raj started to live a luxurious life.
He bought a new house and a new car.
Some of the luxuries were really unnecessary.
His company provided him a car still Raj purchased a new car.
Raj luxurious lifestyle could not manage all the household expenses.
He could not afford to pay for the children education.
His father could not continue his work in the welding shop.
He requested Raj to give some money for his treatment.
Raj was already suffering from financial crisis.
Raj told that he had no money to help them.
Raj complained his parents You never send me to a big school.
I was not provided with expensive clothes.
You fed me my favourite foods very rarely.
I was not able to taste a few varieties of foods.
you did not have enough money to improve my academics.
it took more than 100years for me to get settled.
Now I am again struggling for money.
you are a burden to me.
Do not come to me again His parents left shattered.
After a week while Raj was on an official tour.
he met a small boy selling toys.
The boy requested Raj to buy something.
Raj asked the boy why he was selling toys instead of studying.
My father met with an accident a year ago.
My father lost his one hand in the accident.
My mom is working as an maid at a few houses.
I am helping my parents by selling toys.
I go to school and sell toys only in the evenings.
I work for 3 hours a day and I will study at night.
Raj purchased a few toys from the little boy.
he learned a lesson from the life of the small boy.
At a very small age the boy was helping his parents.
Raj just unable to meet the lavish lifestyle.
It is your duty to take care of your parents.
The Pencil Maker took the pencil aside just before putting him.
There are some things you need to know.
he told the pencil before sending you out into world.
Always remember them and never forget.
you will become the best pencil you can be.
You will be able to do many great things.
if you allow yourself to be held in someone head.
You will experience a painful sharpening from time to time.
you will need it to become a better pencil.
You will be able to correct any mistakes you might make.
The most important part of you will always be what is inside.
On every surface you are used on leave your mark.
No matter what the condition you must continue to write.
The pencil understood and promised to remember.
It went into the box with purpose in its heart.
Now replacing the place of the pencil with you.
You may go through various problems in life.
Allow this parable on the pencil to encourage you.
you can fulfill the purpose to which you were born to accomplish.
Never allow yourself to get discouraged.
your life is insignificant and you can not make a change.
There was a proud teak tree in the forest.
He was tall and strong so very powerful.
There was a small herb next to the tree.
The teak tree said I am very handsome and strong.
No one can defeat me.
the herb replied friend too much pride is harmful.
Even the strong will fall one day.
The teak ignored the herb words.
He continued to praise himself.
A strong wind blew and The teak stood firmly.
the teak stood strong by spreading its leaves.
At the same time the herb bowed low.
The teak made fun of the herb.
One day there was a storm in the forest.
As usual the teak did not want to bow.
The storm kept growing stronger and stronger.
The teak could no longer bear it.
He felt his strength giving way and fell down.
This was the end of the proud tree.
When everything was calm the herb stood straight.
He looked around and saw the proud teak had fallen.
One hot day an ant was searching for some water.
After walking around for some time she came to a spring.
She had to climb up a blade of grass.
While making her way up she slipped and fell into the water.
She could have drowned if a dove had not seen her.
The dove quickly plucked off a leaf.
And dropped it into the water near the struggling ant.
The ant moved towards the leaf and climbed up there.
Soon it carried her safely to dry ground.
A hunter was throwing towards the dove. ---
The ant quickly bite him on the hill.
Feeling the pain the hunter dropped his net.
The dove was quick to fly away to safety.
One good turn deserves another.
Once there was a shepherd boy looking after a flock of sheep.
One day he decided to play a trick on the villagers.
The villagers heard his cries and rushed out of the village.
When they reached him they asked Where is the wolf.
The shepherd boy laughed loudly Ha Ha Ha I fooled all of you.
I was only playing a trick on you.
A few days later the shepherd boy played this trick again.
they found that boy had tricked them.
They were very angry with him for being so naughty.
Then some time later a wolf went into the field.
The wolf attacked one sheep and then another and another.
The shepherd boy ran towards the village.
He shouted Help Help Wolf Help Somebody.
The villagers heard his cries but they laughed.
As they thought it was another trick.
The boy ran to the nearest villager.
The boy said A wolf is attacking the sheep.
I lied before but this time it is true.
Finally the villagers went to look and It was true.
They could see the wolf running away.
and many dead sheep lying on the grass.
We may not believe someone who often tells lies.
even when he tells the truth we believe his lies.
In the south of Spain there was a small village.
These peoples were very joyful and lucky.
The children played under the shade of trees.
A shepherd boy named Nasir stayed near the village.
He stayed with his father mother and grandmother.
Early morning each day he takes his herd of goats up the hills.
He goes to find a suitable place for them to graze.
In the afternoon he would return with them to the village.
At night his grandmother would tell him a story.
The story of stars which interested Nasir.
one of these days as Nasir was watching his hard.
Nasir was playing his flute.
he suddenly saw a wonderful light behind the flower bush.
he saw a transparent and most beautiful crystal ball.
The crystal ball was glittering like a colorful rainbow.
Nasir carefully took it in his hand and turned it around.
With surprise suddenly he heard a weak voice coming.
You can make a wish that your heartdesires and I will fulfill it.
Nasir could not believe that he had actually heard a voice.
he became so engrossed in his thoughts for he had so many wishes.
he must wish for something which was impossible.
He said to himself if I wait till tomorrow.
I will remember many things.
He put the crystal ball in a bag and gathered the herd happily.
He decided that he would not tell anyone about the crystal ball.
On the following day also could not decide what to wish for.
he really had everything he needed.
The days passed as usual and Nasir appeared to be very cheerful.
the people around him were amazed to see his cheerful disposition.
One day a boy followed Nasir and hide behind a tree.
Nasir as usual sat in one corner took out the crystal ball.
The boy waited for the moment when Nasir goes to sleep.
Then he took the crystal ball and ran away.
When he arrived in the village he called all the people.
He showed them the crystal ball.
The citizens of that village took the crystal ball in their hand.
They turned it around with surprise.
Suddenly they heard a voice from inside the crystal ball.
It says I can fulfill all your wishes.
One person screamed I want one bag full of gold.
Another took the ball screamed I want two chest full of jwelary.
Some of them wished that they would have their own palace.
The palace should be made from pure gold.
Some also wished for bags full of jewellery.
nobody asked for gardens in their palaces.
All their wishes were fulfilled but the villagers were not happy.
They were jealous because the person that had a palace had no gold.
the person that had the gold had no palace.
For this reason the citizens of the village were angry.
They were not speaking to each other.
There was not even one garden which existed in the village.
The patience of the children were running out.
Nasir and his family were happy and pleased.
Every morning and afternoon he would play the flute.
The children could not wait any more.
They decided to return the crystal ball to Nasir.
The parents and neighbours went to him.
When we had a small village we all were happy and joyful.
The parent also spoke in one way or another.
The expensive palaces and jewellery only bring us pain.
Nasir saw that the people were really regretful.
you must really want everything to return to its own place.
Nasir took the crystal ball in his hand turned around.
He wished that the village must become the same as it was.
Everyone quickly turned towards the village.
It became the same old village with gardens full of trees.
Once again the people started to live happily.
The children played under the shade of trees.
The sound of Nasir flute could be heard in the village.
This story teaches us we should always be happy.
One afternoon a fox was walking through the forest.
It spotted a bunch of grapes hanging from over a lofty branch.
Just the thing to quench my thirst quoted the fox.
Taking a few steps back the fox again jumped.
The fox just missed the hanging grapes.
Again the fox took a few paces back and tried to reach them.
They are probably sour anyway and proceeded to walk away.
A greedy mouse saw a basket full of corn.
He wanted to eat it as he was hungry.
He made a small hole in the basket.
He squeezed in through the hole.
He ate a lot of corn and was very happy.
He tried to come out through the small hole.
He could not as his belly was full.
He tried again But it was of no use.
The mouse started crying and started screaming.
A rabbit was passing by his home.
Why are you crying my friend.
I made a small hole and came into the basket.
Now I am not able to get out through that hole.
The rabbit said It is because you ate too much.
The rabbit laughed and went away.
Next morning his belly had shrunk.
But the mouse wanted to eat some corn.
So he ate and his belly was full once again.
He thought Oh Now I will go out tomorrow.
The cat was the next passer by.
He smelt the mouse in the basket.
He lifted its lid and ate the mouse.
A little Mouse began running up and down upon him.
This soon wakened the Lion who placed his paw upon him.
He opened his big jaws to swallow him.
Pardon King cried the little Mouse Forgive me this time.
I shall never repeat it and never forget your kindness.
And who knows but I may be able to do you a good turn.
The Lion was tickled at the idea of the Mouse.
he lifted up his paw and let him go.
Just then the little Mouse happened to pass by.
The lion gnawed away the ropes that bound the King of the Beasts.
Was I not right said the little Mouse very happy to help the Lion.
One day long ago some sailors set out to sea in their sailing ship.
He brought his pet monkey along for the long journey.
When they were at sea a terrible storm overturned .
Everyone fell into the sea.
The monkey was sure that he would drown.
Suddenly a dolphin appeared and picked him up.
They soon reached the island.
The monkey came down from the dolphin back.
The dolphin asked the monkey you know this place.
The monkey replied Yes I do.
In fact the king of the island is my best friend.
Do you know that I am actually a prince.
The dolphin said Well so you are a prince.
The monkey asked How can I be a king.
As the dolphin started swimming away he answered that is easy.
You are the only creature on this island.
You will naturally be the king.
Those who lie and boast may end up in trouble.
One beautiful spring day a red rose blossomed in a forest.
Many kinds of trees and plants grew there.
A pine tree nearby said What a beautiful flower.
I wish I was that lovely.
It seems that I am the most beautiful plant in this forest.
A sunflower raised its yellow head.
Why do you say that In this forest there are many beautiful plants.
You are just one of them The red rose replied.
I see everyone looking at me and admiring me.
Then the rose looked at a cactus.
Look at that ugly plant full of thorns.
The pine tree said Red rose what kind of talk is this.
Who can say what beauty is You have thorns too.
The proud red rose looked angrily at the pine.
I thought you had good taste.
You do not know what beauty is at all.
You can not compare my thorns to that of the cactus.
What a proud flower thought the trees.
The rose tried to move its roots away from the cactus.
As the days passed the red rose looked at the cactus.
This plant is useless how sorry I am to be his neighbour.
The cactus never got upset and tried to advise the rose.
God did not create any form of life without a purpose.
Spring passed and the weather became very warm.
Life became difficult in the forest.
The plants and animals needed water and no rain fell.
The red rose began to wilt.
The rose saw sparrows stick their beaks into the cactus.
The red rose asked the pine tree what the birds were doing.
The pine tree explained that the birds got water from the cactus.
Does it not hurt when they make holes asked the rose.
The rose opened its eyes in wonder and said The cactus has water.
Yes you can also drink from it.
The sparrow can bring water to you.
if you ask the cactus for help.
The red rose felt too ashamed of its past words.
It finally did ask the cactus for help.
The cactus kindly agreed and the birds filled their beaks with water.
The rose learned a lesson and never judged anyone by their appearance.
Sam was a greedy and a selfish man.
He always desired to have lots and lots of wealth.
He never hesitated to cheat others to earn money.
He never wished to share anything with the others.
He would like to own everything for himself.
The selfish man used to calculate each and every small aspect.
He paid a very little amount of wages to his servants.
He calculate a lot to save money by deceiving others.
He also told a lot of lies to protect his wealth.
However he was taught a nice lesson by his own act.
One day he missed a small bag which contained some gold coins.
He was searching for the bag of gold coins day and night.
He sent his workers in search of the bag but none could find it.
He told his friends and neighbours that he had lost a bag of gold coins.
He requested them to inform if they found it.
Sam was so sad that he had lost so many gold coins.
After a couple of days a ten year old girl was found near Sam house.
She had found a small bag and it had some gold coins.
Her father worked in Sams land.
He told his daughter that it was his money.
He had lost it before two days.
He would return the bag to his master.
The father could hide the fact of finding the bag.
He would return the valuable coins to his master.
He gave it back to his master Sam.
He checked whether the bag had gold coins.
Sam who was literally happy to get the coins.
There were gold coins in this bag You have stolen them.
The worker was shocked to hear this.
He gave whatever his daughter had found.
Selfish and greedy Sam did not accept it.
They decided to take the issue to court to get the right judgement.
He examined the daughter and the worker about the coins.
They have stolen some of my coins.
judge asked are you sure you had gold coins.
Sam started nodding his head once again.
Then the judge made his judgement.
I would declare that it belongs to Sam.
They were no claims against the loss of gold coins.
I order the girl and his father to take those gold coins.
honesty is rewarded and greediness is punished.
There was a big tree more than hundred years old.
It was located in the middle of a dry land.
It gave rest and shelter to hundreds and thousands of travellers.
The tree was located at the centre of four different towns.
It act as a connection point of all towns and villages.
There was no other tree that can offer rest to the people.
The tree has a huge and broad trunk with innumerable branches.
It spread the shadow covering a wide space.
One day two travellers were travelling from a distant place.
They tried to reach a town located at the east of the tree.
They were walking for several miles on a hot and sunny day.
They started their journey from early morning.
and now it was almost mid noon.
The sun was too hot and they could not walk any more.
They reached the place where the tree was located.
They were very happy to see such a big tree.
They decided to take rest under the tree.
They slept for some time happily.
They enjoyed the soothing breeze of the tree.
They felt hungry and were in search of food.
One of them decided to climb the branches of the tree.
Since it is not a fruit bearing tree the traveller was disappointed.
He started cursing the tree owing to his hunger.
On this is just a useless tree.
It has nothing to feed us not even a fruit and even nuts.
The other traveller composed him and asked him to stay cool.
The traveller was angry due to hunger and cursed the tree.
The tree could not tolerate the cursing words of the traveller.
You can not be so ungrateful to me.
Just look back at the condition when you reached.
I offered you cool and comfortable place to rest and sleep.
If I am not here when you are very tired you would have died now.
I saved your life from the hot sun but you humiliate me.
The traveller realized his mistake and apologized.
Every creation of God has innumerable benefits to the mankind.
There is good in everything and we often fails to notice the good.
Also do not badmouth the one who helped you.
Once upon a time there lived a very rich and wealthy man.
He had all sorts of wealths and led a luxurious life.
He had every luxury at his footstep.
He could afford to feed for the entire people of his town.
He always boasted his luxurious life to his friends and relatives.
His son was studying in a distant place.
He returned home for vacation.
The rich man wanted to show off to his son.
and how he made him very proud.
His son was not ever fond of any luxurious lifestyle.
His lifestyle was extremely rich.
The poor people were suffering from various diseases.
He planned for a day visit for the entire town.
The father and the son took a chariot with them.
They visited the entire town.
They returned home after two days.
The father was happy that his son was very quiet.
The poor people were honouring the rich man.
The rich man asked his son Have you enjoyed it.
Yes my dad it was a great trip with you.
So what did you learn from the trip.
Finally you have realized how the poor suffer.
He added We have only two dogs.
We have a big pool in our garden.
They have a massive bay without any ends.
We have luxurious and expensive lights imported from various countries.
They have countless stars lighting their nights.
We have a mouse in a small piece of land.
They have abundant fields that go beyond the sight.
We are served by servants but they serve people.
We are protected by huge and strong walls around our property.
They bonded with each other and surround themselves.
We only buy food from them.
They are so rich to cultivate their own food.
The rich father was stunned to hear his son words.
He was completely speechless after hearing this.
Finally the son added Dad thank you so much.
Let me understand how poor we are.
True wealth is not measured by money and property.
It is in the friendship relationship and good compassion.
A Wolf found great difficulty in getting the sheep.
It found the skin of a sheep that had been flayed aside.
It strolled down among the sheep.
He soon made a meal off her.
He succeeded in deceiving the sheep and enjoying hearty meals.
There lived a generous and kind hearted king.
The people were not happy with their king.
The king was too lazy and would not do anything.
He spent days and weeks and months in his bed.
He almost became inactive from his mind.
The king became a potato couch.
The people started to worry about the king.
He could not even move his body unable to move his foot.
He became very fat and his enemies made fun of him.
He invited specialized doctors from various parts of his country.
He offered them generous rewards to make him fit.
None could help the king gain his health and fitness.
The king was very cordial to his fellow people.
Many suggested renowned doctors came to help him.
He spent enormously but everything went in vain.
A holy man visited the region of the King.
He heard about the ill health of the king.
He told the minister to meet him at his place.
He informed the minister that he could easily cure the king.
The minister became very happy hearing these words.
He requested the king to meet the holy man.
The holy man resided at a distant place.
The king could not move his fat body.
The fatty king asked the minister to call the holy man to the palace.
The holy man refused and ordered to come to meet him.
After strenuous efforts the king met the holy man.
The holy man encouraged him and said he was good.
So they put the paper and pens and ink ready.
The elder sister took up a fairy story.
I have never known any fairies she said.
It would not do to put one book inside another.
I must know a few kings and queens.
I shall write about the pig and the pony.
It would never do to write a book without thinking.
How many things were left out in her book.
It is no good thinking about kings and queens.
The brother was considering about the pig and the pony.
He had journeyed a long way and was very tired.
It seemed like a dream when he stood up after sleep.
He looked over the wall and saw the garden.
He looked at the long road behind him.
It was the world to which he belonged.
He looked at the garden before him at the big house.
It was the world which belonged to the children.
I will get you something to eat.
Where did he come from the gardener asked.
We do not know the child answered.
Mother says we may give him some food.
I will take him some milk said the little one.
She carried a mug and in the other hand.
She pulled along her little broken cart.
But what is he called asked the gardener.
We do not know the little one answered.
Mother says we may give him some milk.
Where is he going asked the gardener.
We do not know the children said.
I must not stay any longer and turned his way.
What have you to do the children asked.
I must help to make the world go round he answered.
You are the passengers do you know that.
How far have you to go they asked.
Oh a long way he answered.
On and on until I can touch the sun.
Will you really touch it they said awestruck.
I dare say I shall tire long before I get there.
I shall reach it in my sleep he added.
But they hardly heard the last words.
Why did you talk to him the gardener said.
He is just a working boy.
It was very good of him to notice us.
Good said the gardener in despair.
Why between you and him there is a great difference.
There was only a wall they answered.
Who set it up they asked curiously.
Why the builders of course men set it up.
And who will pull it down.
It will not want any pulling down.
The man answered very grimly.
The children went back to their play.
They looked up at the light towards the boy.
Perhaps we too shall reach it someday they said.
It had scanty hair that always turned inwards.
Yet in its glass eyes there was an expression of amusement.
They seemed to be looking not at you but through you.
The pursed up red lips were always smiling.
Well you are a doll the boy said.
And what are you stirring at me.
He asked looking over has shoulder.
The doll made no answer again.
And whatever are you smiling for he asked.
I believe you are always smiling.
I did not do my exercise the whole year.
If the cat died or the monument tumbled down.
But still the doll smiled in silence again.
The boy went on with his exercise very rigorously.
Presently he looked up again and yawned.
I think I will go for a stroll he said.
I know what I will do he said suddenly.
I will take that doll and hang it up to the apple tree.
And calling out Sis I have taken your doll.
I am going to make a scarecrow of it.
He went off to the garden.
His sister rushed after him crying out.
What are you doing to it you naughty boy.
And it is so stupid it never does anything.
It cannot even grow it never gets any bigger.
She got it once more safely into her arms.
You cannot grow but it is not your fault.
They did not make any tucks in you to let out.
It went smiling away like anything.
It has no heart of course it can feel.
It got a heart as it is alive.
You ought to be sorry for it.
He is very very kind to it poor thing.
It is never bad tempered so it never complains.
It never did anything as it was always good.
She said and always look smiling.
You must be very unhappy at not being alive.
She is very fond of wooden toys.
She had a beautiful wood horse gifted by her uncle.
The wooden horse has been her close pal and her pet.
She went on a vacation to a nature resort in the woods.
She carried the wooden horse with her.
She enjoyed her holiday with her family in the woods.
She was packing things with her brother.
They planned to return home.
The wooden horse fallen down.
One of the legs of the horse was broken.
Tina was too sad and silently cried for her horse.
She was very upset for her horse.
They packed all things and left the woods.
Entire family tried to cheer up the sweet little girl.
Tina brother tried to console her a lot.
They had a break for lunch but Tina refused it.
Her mother requested her to eat food.
She ate a very little amount of food.
While others were eating she sat quietly in their car.
Her brother came to her and told her.
Tina dear do not worry do not get upset.
The horse does not have a life like us.
It is just a lifeless thing we all know that.
Do not be so sad for the broken leg.
The horse loses its tail without hurting him.
The horse loses its head and became painful.
I will buy a new wood horse for you.
A leg of my pet toy was broken.
Tina replied Yes brother you are right.
It would not be a major issue for you.
The horse is broken into pieces at this age.
You had a pet like I had you with me.
You will feel how painful it was for me.
Her brother left silently without saying anything.
Everyone has different feelings of different aspects.
Things of no importance will be a treasure of someone.
They sat down to eat their porridge.
The naughty little girl turned her back upon her sister.
He put a large spoonful into her mouth.
Eat it slowly said the good little sister.
She took up her porridge carefully and started blowing it.
I shall not eat mine until it is quite cold.
Then it will be nasty said the good little sister.
She is still going on with her own porridge.
If I eat it too hot it burns me.
If I eat it too cold it is nasty.
Take it as I do mine said the good little sister.
There are two wrong ways and only one right way.
It is not fair signed the naughty little girl.
And oh my porridge is so nasty.
Did you ever eat your porridge too hot.
No answered the good little sister again.
I never ate my porridge too hot.
Your porridge was quite cold and very nasty.
I never ate my porridge when it was quite cold.
I know about two things that you do not know about.
The naughty little sister got up and walked away.
The good little sister sat still and thought about many things.
All the wood had been blue with violets.
The birds sang louder and louder to keep them back.
There was not a violet left in all the wood from end to end.
The snowdrops died and the primrose faded the cowslips.
The wild honeysuckle was filled the wood with its fragrance.
The swallows and the chaffinches gathered round the garden trees.
Then one day they espied a little child.
She was sitting on a chair under a tree.
She had a little table before her and a pink ribbon round her hat.
She was eating fruit with a large silver spoon.
The birds were afraid and held aloof until a sparrow chirped.
They saw how blue her eyes were they sang out bravely.
She had brought them news from the violets.
The birds crowded on to the branch above her.
They perched upon the table.
They rubbed their little beaks against her plate.
She just held on her hat with one hand.
They went on taking up fruit with a silver spoon.
THERE was once a king called Benin.
He was good and all the world loved him.
he was just and the wicked feared him.
His wife the Queen Doucette was also good and much loved.
This happy pair had a daughter called the Princess Blondine.
because of her superb fair hair.
and she was as amiable and charming.
as her father the king and her mother the queen.
Unfortunately the poor queen died a short time.
after the birth of Blondine and for a long time.
the king wept bitterly at his great loss.
Blondine was too young to understand her mothers death.
she did not weep but continued to laugh to play.
and to sleep peacefully.
The king loved her tenderly.
and she loved him more than all the world.
He gave his little daughter the most beautiful jewels.
the finest bonbons and the most rare and delicious fruits.
Blondine was very happy.
it was announced.
that all his subjects demanded.
that he should marry again in order to have a son.
who should reign after him.
He refused at first but finally yielded to the pressing.
desires of his people and said to his minister Leger.
My dear friend my subjects wish me to marry again.
but my heart is so sad.
because of the death of my cherished queen Doucette.
that I cannot undertake the task of seeking another wife.
Go then my good Leger and find me a princess.
who will make my sweet Blondine happy.
I ask for nothing more.
When you have found a perfect woman.
you will demand her hand in marriage and conduct her to my court.
Leger set off immediately visited many courts.
and saw innumerable princesses ugly humpbacked and wicked.
At last he arrived at the kingdom of Turbulent.
who had a lovely daughter bright winning and apparently good.
Leger found her so charming that he asked her hand.
in marriage for his king Benin.
without sufficiently inquiring into her real character.
Turbulent was enchanted at the prospect.
of getting rid of his daughter who was jealous proud and wicked.
Also her presence often interfered with his excursions.
for pleasure with the chase.
and with his various entertainments at the palace.
Without a moments hesitation he acceded to the Prime Ministers request.
and he returned with the princess.
to the kingdom of the good king Benin.
The princess Fourbette was accompanied by four thousand mules.
loaded with the jewels and wardrobe of the charming bride.
King Benin had been apprised of their approach.
by a courier and went forward.
to receive the princess Fourbette.
He found her beautiful but he noted the absence of the mild.
and attractive expression of the poor lost Doucette.
When Fourbettes eyes fell upon Blondine.
her glance was so cruel so wicked.
that the poor child who was now three years old.
was greatly terrified and began to weep bitterly.
What is the matter said the king.
Why does my sweet and sensible Blondine weep.
like a bad little girl.
Papa dear papa cried Blondine throwing herself.
into the arms of the king.
do not give me into the hands of this princess.
I am afraid of her eyes are cruel.
The king was much surprised.
He turned so suddenly towards the princess.
Fourbette that she had no time to control herself.
and he perceived the terrible glance.
with which she regarded the little Blondine.
Benin immediately resolved that Blondine should be wholly separated.
from the new queen and remain as before.
under the exclusive protection of the nurse.
who had taken care of her and who loved her tenderly.
The queen thus saw Blondine rarely.
and when she met her by chance.
she could not wholly dissimulate.
the hatred she felt for her.
About a year from that time a daughter was born.
to the queen Fourbette.
She was named Brunette because of her dark hair.
which was black as the ravens wing.
Brunette was pretty but not so lovely as Blondine.
more over she was as wicked as her mother.
She detested Blondine and played all sorts of cruel.
tricks upon her bit her pinched her pulled her hair.
broke her toys and tore her beautiful dresses.
The good little Blondine was never in a passion.
with her sister but always tried to make excuses for her conduct.
Oh papa she said to the king do not scold Brunette.
she is so little she does not know.
that she grieves me when she breaks my toys.
It is only in play that she bites me pulls my hair and pinches me.
The good king embraced his little daughter.
and was silent but she knew that Brunette was cruel and wicked.
that Blondine was too gentle and good to excuse her.
He loved Blondine therefore more and more from day to day.
and his heart grew cold to Brunette.
The ambitious queen Fourbette saw all this clearly.
and hated intensely the innocent and gentle Blondine.
If she had not feared the rage of the king.
she would have made Blondine the most wretched child in the world.
Benin had commanded that Blondine should never be left alone with the queen.
He was known to be just and good.
but he punished disobedience severely.
and the queen herself dared not defy his commands.
When Blondine entered the forest she commenced.
gathering the beautiful branches of lilacs.
She rejoiced in their profusion and delighted in their fragrance.
As she made her selection it seemed to her.
that those which were more distant were still more beautiful.
so she emptied her apron and her hat.
which were both full and filled them again and again
Blondine had been thus busily occupied for about an hour.
She began to suffer from the heat and to feel great fatigue.
She found the branches of lilacs heavy to carry.
and thought it was time to return to the palace.
She looked around and saw herself surrounded with lilacs.
She called Gourmandinet but no one replied.
I have wandered further than I intended said Blondine.
I will return at once though I am very weary.
Gourmandinet will hear me and will surely come to meet me.
Blondine walked on rapidly for some time.
but she could not find the boundaries of the forest.
Many times she called anxiously upon Gourmandinet.
but he did not respond and at last she became terribly frightened.
What will become of me all alone in this vast forest.
What will my poor papa think when I do not return.
And Gourmandinet how will he dare go back to the palace without me.
He will be scolded perhaps beaten.
and all this is my fault because.
I would leave my carriage to gather lilacs.
Unfortunate girl that I am I shall die of hunger.
and thirst in this forest.
if the wolves do not eat me up this night.
Weeping bitterly Blondine fell on the ground.
at the foot of a large tree.
She wept a long time.
At last her great fatigue mastered her grief.
She placed her little head upon her bundle of lilacs and slept peacefully.
BEAUMINON had entered by a little passage.
which seemed made expressly for him.
and had probably given notice to someone at the castle.
as the gate opened without Blondine having called.
She entered the court yard but saw no one.
The door of the castle opened of itself.
Blondine entered the vestibule which was of rare white marble.
All the doors of the castle now opened like the first.
and the princess passed through a suite of beautiful rooms.
At last in the back part of a charming salon furnished.
with blue and gold she perceived a white hind.
lying upon a bed of fine and fragrant grasses.
Beau Minon stood near her.
The pretty hind saw Blondine arose and approached her.
You are most welcome Blondine said she.
My son Beau Minon and I have expected you for a long time.
At these words Blondine was much frightened.
Take courage princess you are with friends.
I know the king your father.
and I love him and I love you also.
Oh madam said Blondine if you know the king.
my father I pray you to take me to him.
My absence must make him very wretched.
My dear Blondine said the hind whose name was BonneBiche.
sighing it is not in my power to conduct you to your father.
You are in the hands of the magician of the Forest of Lilacs.
I myself am subject to his power which is superior to mine.
but I can send soft dreams to your father.
which will reassure him as to your fate.
and let him know that you are safe with him.
Oh madam said Blondine in an agony of grief.
shall I never again see my father whom I love so tenderly.
Dear Blondine do not distress yourself as to the future.
Wisdom and prudence are always recompensed.
You will see your father again but not now.
In the meantime be good and docile.
Beau Minon and i will do all in our power to make you happy.
Blondine sighed heavily and shed a few tears.
She then reflected that to manifest such grief.
was a poor recompense for all the goodness of Bonne Biche.
She resolved therefore to control herself and to be cheerful.
Bonne Biche took her to see the apartment they had pre pared for her.
The bedroom was hung with rose colored.
silk embroidered with gold.
The furniture was covered with white velvet.
worked with silks of the most brilliant hues.
Every species of animal bird.
and butterfly were rep resented in rare embroidery.
Adjoining Blondines chamber was a small study.
It was hung with sky blue damask embroidered with fine pearls.
The furniture was covered with silver moire adorned with nails of turquoise.
Two magnificent portraits representing a young and superbly handsome woman.
and a strikingly attractive young man hung on the walls.
Their costumes indicated that they were of royal race.
Whose portraits are these madam.
said Blondine to Bonne Biche.
I am forbidden to answer that question dear Blondine.
but this is the hour for dinner.
Come Blondine I am sure you are hungry.
Blondine was in fact almost dying of hunger.
She followed Bonne Biche and they entered the dining room.
where she saw a table strangely served.
An enormous cushion of black satin was placed.
on the floor for Bonne Biche.
On the table before her was a vase filled with the choicest.
herbs fresh and nutritious and near this vase was a golden bucket.
filled with fresh and limpid water.
Opposite Bonne Biche was a little stool.
for Beau Minon while before him was a little porringer.
in gold filled with little fried fish and the thighs of snipes.
At one side was a bowl of rich crystal full of fresh milk.
Between Beau Minon and Bonne Biche a plate was placed for Blondine.
Her chair was of carved covered with crimson velvet.
attached with nails of diamonds.
Before her was a gold plate richly chased filled with delicious soup.
made of a young pullet and fig birds her glass.
and water bottle were of carved rock crystal a muffin was placed.
by her side her fork and spoon were of gold.
and her napkin was of linen finer than anything she had ever seen.
The table was served by gazelles who were marvellously adroit.
They waited carved and even divined the wishes of Blondine Bonne Biche.
The dinner was exquisite the chicken was splendid.
the game and fish most delicate the pastry and bonbons superlative.
Blondine was hungry so she ate of all and found all excellent.
After dinner Bonne Biche and Beau Minon conducted.
the princess into the garden.
She found there the most delicious fruits and lovely walks.
After a charming walk Blondine entered the castle.
with her new friends much fatigued.
Bonne Biche proposed that she retire to which she agreed joyfully.
Blondine entered her chamber.
and found two gazelles waiting to attend her.
They disrobed her with grace and adroitness placed her in bed.
and seated themselves by her couch to watch over her.
Blondine was soon peacefully asleep.
not however without having first thought of her father.
and wept bitterly over her cruel separation from him.
Six months had passed since Blondine awaked from her seven years sleep.
It seemed to the little princess a long time.
The remembrance of her dear father often saddened her heart.
Bonne Biche and Beau Minon seemed to divine her thoughts.
Beau Minon mewed plaintively.
and Bonne Biche heaved the most profound sighs.
Blondine spoke but rarely of that.
which occupied her thoughts continually.
She feared to offend Bonne Biche who had said to her three or four times.
You will see your father when you are fifteen.
if you continue wise and good.
do not trouble yourself about the future.
and above all do not seek to leave us.
One morning Blondine was alone and very sad.
She was musing upon her singular and monotonous existence.
Suddenly she was in her reverie.
by three soft little strokes upon her window.
Raising her head she perceived a parrot with beautiful green plumage.
and throat and breast of bright orange.
Surprised at the appearance of a bird entirely unknown to her.
she opened the window and invited the parrot to enter.
What was her amazement when the bird said to her.
in a fine sharp voice.
Good day Blondine I know that you sometimes.
have a very tedious time of it.
because you have no one to talk to.
I have taken pity upon you and come to have a chat with you.
But I pray you do not mention that you have seen me.
for Bonne Biche would cut my throat if she knew it.
Why so beautiful Parrot.
she injures no one and only hates the wicked.
Blondine listen If you do not promise to conceal.
my visit from Bonne Biche and Beau Minon.
I will fly away at once and never return.
Since you wish it so much beautiful Parrot.
I will promise silence Let us chat a little.
It is a long time since I have had an opportunity to converse.
You seem to me gay and witty.
I do not doubt that you will amuse me much.
Blondine listened with delight to the lively talk of the Parrot.
who complimented extravagantly her beauty her wit and her talents.
Blondine was enchanted.
In about an hour the Parrot flew away promising to return the next day.
In short she returned every day and continued to compliment and amuse her.
One morning she struck upon the window and said.
Blondine Blondine open the window quickly I bring you news of your father.
But above all make no noise unless you want my throat cut.
Blondine was overwhelmed with joy.
She opened the window with alacrity and said.
Is it true my beautiful Parrot that you bring me news of my dear father.
Speak quickly What is he doing and how is he.
Your father is well Blondine but he weeps your loss always.
I have promised him to employ all my power to deliver you.
from your prison but I can do nothing without your assistance.
My prison said Blondine.
But you are ignorant of all the goodness which Bonne Biche and Beau Minon.
have shown me of the pains.
they have lavished upon my education of all their tenderness and forbearance.
They will be enchanted to find a way of restoring me to my father.
Come with me beautiful Parrot and I will present you to Bonne Biche.
Ah Blondine said the sharp voice of the Parrot.
it is you Princess who do not know Bonne Biche and Beau Minon.
They detest me because I have sometimes succeeded.
in rescuing their victims from them.
You will never see your father again.
Blondine you will never leave this forest.
unless you yourself shall break the charm which holds you here.
What charm said Blondine.
I know of no charm and what interest have Bonne Biche.
and Beau Minon in keeping me a prisoner.
Is it not to their interest to enliven their solitude Blondine.
There is a talisman which can procure your release.
It is a simple Rose which gathered by yourself.
will deliver you from your exiles.
and restore you to the arms of your fond father.
But there is not a single Rose in the garden.
How then can I gather one.
I will explain this to you another day Blondine.
Now I can tell you no more as I hear Bonne Biche coming.
But to convince you of the virtues of the Rose entreat.
Biche to give you one and see what she will say.
Tomorrow tomorrow Blondine.
The Parrot flew away well content to have scattered.
in Blondines heart seeds of discontent and ingratetude.
The Parrot had scarcely disappeared when Bonne Biche entered.
She appeared greatly agitated.
With whom have you been talking Blondine.
looking suspiciously towards the open window.
With no one madam said the princess.
I am certain I heard voices in conversation.
I must have been speaking to myself.
Bonne Biche made no reply.
Very soon the king would gain his health.
He asked the king to come for treatment every day.
He would treat the king only if he came on foot to his place.
The King was unable to walk even a few steps on the road.
He was accompanied by his followers he reached the holy men place.
Unfortunately the holy man was not available there.
His devotee requested the king to come and meet him.
The king never met the holy man never had any treatment.
Suddenly the king realized that he felt a lot lighter.
He has lost considerable amount of weight.
He was feeling more active than before.
Very soon the king regained his health.
The people were very happy in his kingdom.
The King had a lot of wealth.
No amount of wealth could make him healthy.
There was a poor boy who made a living with selling various objects.
He was very hungry and felt he could not walk even a few steps.
He decided to ask for food at a house.
He was stunned to see a beautiful young girl.
He asked the girl to offer a glass of water.
The young girl understood his hunger through his eyes.
He offered him milk in a huge glass.
With astonished look he drank the milk very slowly.
he asked how much I owe you for this milk.
The girl replied I do not accept anything for kindness.
With big smile in his face the boy thanked the girl.
The young girl fell ill again.
And was diagnosed with the rarest kind of nervous condition.
Many experienced doctors baffled at her condition.
She was taken to a big hospital to study about her condition.
He was called in by the hospital to examine her.
He gave a visit to the hospital where she was admitted.
Kevin immediately identified who that woman was.
Kevin battled hardly with the disease for weeks and months.
At last he won over the disease.
And the woman was completely cured.
Everyone praised the doctor for the successful operation.
The woman was quite afraid about the hospital bill.
As she could not afford to pay.
Kevin asked the hospital to send the bill to him.
Kevin would add the doctor charges.
After receiving the hospital bill he wrote a note.
With lots of fear she opened the bill.
and had no idea how much she was charged.
Her eyes filled with tears and happiness as she opened the bill.
She found the bill cancelled.
That was not the reason for her happiness.
Rama is a hard worker.
He is the sole bread winner of the family.
He has three kids two sons and a daughter.
He lives along with father and mother.
Rama used to work too hard to feed his family.
The kids can not see him as he will leave home early in the morning.
He reaches home around midnight.
The entire family eagerly wait to spend quality time with him.
The kids miss him so much.
The children were too curious about Sundays.
His father would spend the entire day with them.
Rama took a weekend job to work even on Sundays.
The kids were very shattered about this.
The typical routine continued for several weeks and year passed.
All the hard work of Rama earned a lot of benefits.
He was offered promotion with attractive increment.
The family moved to a new house.
He got better clothes and ate healthy foods.
Rama continues to earn more and more money.
Why are you running for money.
We can be happy with what we have now.
I want to give the best available in the world to all of you.
I want you to stay happy always.
Two years passed and Rama hardly spent time with his family.
The children yearned to have their father at home.
The sincere efforts of Rama reaped him a fortune.
He was offered partnership and share in profits.
He continued to earn more and more wealth.
Rama family is one of the richest families in the city.
They have already the facilities and luxuries.
Rama children strove to meet their father.
Rama was hardly seen at home.
His children turned teens and they were no more kids.
Rama family went to their beach house to spend their vacation.
dad will you please spend one day at home and stay with us.
Yes tomorrow for sure I will join you for the lunch.
I will be with you all for next few days.
I am tired of work and need refreshment.
The entire family became very happy.
The next day none in Rama family were alive.
They were washed out in Tsunami.
Rama was too busy even to hear the news about Tsunami.
When he reached his beach house he saw water everywhere.
He could not even find the dead bodies of his family.
He can never have them again can not even see them.
Even by paying millions he can not get them back to life.
Money can not buy everything.
There lived a generous kind hearted king.
He was fond of birds and animals.
He had a huge bird sanctuary in his reign.
He disliked harming the animals and birds.
He even did not kill them for the sake of eating meat.
He was gifted two beautiful falcons by his fellow businessman.
Those two falcons belonged to a different place.
They lived in a different climatic condition.
The king ordered to provide all the facilities.
The head trainer took the birds.
He provided all essentials to help the birds.
Gradually the birds got adapted to the countries atmosphere.
One day the king wanted to see the falcons fly.
He heard that one of those falcons fly to great heights.
The king rewarded the bird trainer with handful of gold coins.
He enquired about the other falcon again.
The other falcon did not move even a step.
The falcon just sat on the branch.
The trainer also added that he tried everything best he could.
He failed to make this bird move.
He would bring someone more experienced than him.
The king make the falcon move and fly.
An old man reached the King palace after some time.
He would make the bird fly like the other one.
The king took the old man to the sanctuary.
The next day the king was very surprised to see the other falcon fly.
The king was too happy and rewarded him handful.
The king asked what he had done to make the bird fly.
I just cut down the branch of the tree.
We have wings to fly we know how to fly.
Do not try to walk when you have wings to fly.
It was a cold and windy night.
My friend and me met after a long time.
We were chatting for hours.
We did not notice that time flew away.
We decided to take an auto rickshaw to go to our room.
We hurried to get into an auto rickshaw and reach our place.
None of the auto rickshaws stopped for us except one.
The driver asked us where we wanted to go.
Without talking anything about the fare he said please get in.
We thanked the auto driver for stopping for us.
I asked the driver to stop in the middle at any small restaurant.
We liked to have a cup of hot tea.
The driver stopped near a small restaurant.
We ordered for tea and asked the driver to join us.
I insisted him to take a cup as it could be refreshing.
Again the driver refused to drink tea.
Will you not take tea from this shop or whats.
No Sir I do not feel like having tea now.
But why A cup of tea will make no harm.
Thank you sir but I am sorry.
Do you have any habit that you would not eat outside.
My friend became angry on the driver.
You think we are not equal to share a cup of tea with you.
The Driver remained silent and never replied.
I was really surprised at his behaviour.
I asked my friend not to compel him.
We reached our mansion in quick time.
We paid the fare and he thanked us.
I really wanted to ask him why he refused to drink tea.
Sir my son passed away this noon in accident.
I do not have enough money for his funeral.
I promised not to drink even water for some time.
I must earn enough money for my son.
I did not drink tea when you offered.
We both were shattered and offered him more money.
He refused to take the money with him.
Thank you for your generosity sir.
And he left the place after that.
He could have charged us more than the usual rate.
Still he received the nominal auto fare.
The auto driver remained honest and stood by his words.
Be honest to all because honesty is the right policy.
She had a major problem that she got annoyed with everything.
She felt bad about everything she had with herself.
She was just always carrying a negative thinking.
She used to get angry of everything.
She developed all these negative aspects suddenly.
One day she requested help from her dad.
Her father consoled her and took her to the kitchen.
He asked Mary to take a potato an egg.
and a two spoonfuls of tea leaves.
Her father asked do you want me to cook.
He then poured one cup of water in each vessel.
Each vessel was placed on the stove.
Once the water started to boil he dropped potato in a vessel egg.
He asked her to wait for a few more minutes with patience.
The impatient daughter managed to wait for sometime.
The Father removed the potato from the pot.
He placed in a plate and did the same with eggs.
He filtered the tea decoction using a cup.
He placed the plates with the potato.
He asked Mary What do you see.
She said Potato Egg and a cup of tea.
No you are wrong said the father.
Mary replied the same Now touch it and reply me.
The potato was cooked and was very soft.
The egg was boiled hard and the tea carried the nice aroma.
Mary could not find the correct answer.
The potato was so hard and strong.
The potato were boiled and turned soft and smooth.
Also the egg was too delicate.
After boiling it became too hard.
Sip the tea it is delicious.
Mary asked What does it mean father I do not understand.
Each object responded differently to water.
This is how you have to be.
Each object was put under the same kind of circumstances.
The potato when put in boiling water became very weak.
The crumbled egg became very hard.
When the egg was put in boiling water.
And the tea leaves are unique.
It changed the water itself giving it unique flavour.
Mary understood that we could create something new.
So what are you A potato or an egg.
He is the only son to his parents.
His father is a busy business man.
He could hardly spend time with his son.
Nick father would reach after he sleeps.
He will move out before he wakes up.
They will sleep until he leaves for school.
His father would accompany him or join with family.
Nick wanted to go outdoors with his father and have fun.
Nick was surprised to see his father at home.
that it is a big surprise to see you at home.
Yes son my meeting was cancelled.
My next flight is delayed by few hours.
Dad I want to talk to you for sometime.
I want to ask you a few questions.
Yes my dear son please proceed.
When will you be back tomorrow noon.
Dad how much do you earn a year.
Dear it is a very big amount.
You would not be able to understand it.
Dad are you happy with the amount you earn.
I am very happy and in fact I am planning to launch our new branch.
So do you have any other questions Nick.
Yes father I do have only one more question.
Can you tell me what you earn half a day.
do not you have all the luxury provided to you.
No dad you have always given the best to me.
It would be really nice if you can tell me.
How much you earn in an hour.
You should be questioning your father about his income.
Nick asked his mummy to support him.
Nick and his mom requested to answer his hourly income.
Nick ran to his room in the upstairs.
He reached down carrying a piggy bank with him.
Can you spare me three hours with me I want to go to beach.
Can I have dinner with you tomorrow evening.
Can you please mark this in your schedule.
Running behind money makes children deprived of love.
The wooden doll had no peace.
Many time the poor wooden doll wished it was a tin train.
They are always making a noise thought the wooden doll.
They are always talking and walking about always moving things.
It is lucky that we are not all human beings.
The world would be worn out in no time.
Let us write a book they said.
A book about kings and queens said the other boy.
Oh no said the brother let us write about animals.
We will write about them all they cried together.
She was very sad and tears fell from her eyes.
Blondine was also engaged in thought.
The cunning words of the Parrot made her look upon the kindness of Bonne Biche.
and Beau Minon in a totally different light.
In place of saying to herself that a hind which had the power to speak.
to make wild beasts intelligent to put an infant.
to sleep for seven years to dedicate seven years.
to a tiresome and ignorant little girl in short a hind lodged.
and served like a queen could be no ordinary criminal.
in place of cherishing a sentiment of gratitude.
for all that Bonne Biche had done for her Blondine.
alas believed blindly in the Parrot.
the unknown bird of whose character and veracity.
She did not remember that the Parrot could have no possible motive.
for risking its life to render her a service.
Blondine believed it though implicitly because of the flattery.
which the Parrot had lavished upon her.
She did not even recall with gratitude.
the sweet and happy existence which Bonne Biche.
and Beau Minon had secured to her.
She resolved to follow implicitly the counsels of the Parrot.
During the course of the day she said to Bonne Biche.
Why madam do I not see among your flowers.
the most lovely and charming of all flowers the fragrant Rose.
Bonne Biche was greatly agitated and said in a trembling voice.
Blondine Blondine do not ask for this most perfidious flower.
which pierces all who touch it.
Never speak to me of the Rose Blondine.
You cannot know what fatal danger this flower contains for you.
The expression of Bonne Biche was so stern.
and severe that Blondine dared not question her further.
The day passed away sadly enough.
Bonne Biche was unhappy and Beau Minon very sad.
Early in the morning Blondine ran to her window.
and the Parrot entered the moment she opened it.
Well my dear Blondine did you notice the agitation.
of Bonne Biche when you mentioned the Rose.
I promised you to point out the means by which you could obtain.
one of these charming flowers.
Listen now to my counsel.
You will leave this park and enter the forest.
I will accompany you and I will conduct you to a garden.
where you will find the most beautiful Rose in the world.
But how is it possible for me to leave the park.
Beau Minon always accompanies me in my walks.
Try to get rid of him said the Parrot.
but if that is impossible go in spite of him.
If this Rose is at a distance will not my absence be perceived.
It is about an hour's walk.
Bonne Biche has been careful to separate you as far as possible.
from the Rose in order that you might not find.
that means to escape from her power.
But why does she wish to hold me captive.
She is all powerful and could surely find pleasures.
more acceptable than educating an ignorant child.
All this will be explained to you in the future.
Blondine when you will be in the arms of your father.
Be firm After breakfast in some way.
get away from Beau Minon and enter the forest.
I will expect you there.
Blondine promised and closed the window fearing.
that Bonne Biche would surprise her.
After breakfast according to her usual custom.
she entered the garden.
Beau Minon followed her in spite of some rude be buffs.
which he received with plaintive mews.
Arrived at the alley which led out of the park.
Blondine resolved to get rid of Beau Minon.
I wish to be alone said she sternly.
begone Beau Minon.
Beau Minon pretended not to understand.
Blondine was impatient and enraged.
She forgot herself so far as to strike Beau Minon with her foot.
When poor Beau Minon received this humiliating blow.
he uttered a cry of anguish and fled towards the palace.
Blondine trembled and was on the point of recalling him.
when a false shame arrested her.
She walked on rapidly to the gate opened it.
not without trembling and entered the forest.
The Parrot joined her without delay.
Courage Blondine in one hour you will have the Rose.
and will see your father who weeps for you.
At these words Blondine recovered her resolution.
which had become to falter.
She walked on in the path indicated by the Parrot.
who flew before her from branch to branch.
The forest which had seemed so beautiful and attractive.
near the park of Bonne Biche became wilder and more entangled.
Brambles and stones almost filled up the path.
the sweet songs of the birds were no longer heard.
and the flowers had entirely disappeared.
Blondine felt oppressed by an inexplicable restlessness.
The Parrot pressed her eagerly to advance.
Quick quick Blondine time flies If Bonne Biche perceives your absence.
you will never again see your father.
Blondine fatigued almost breathless with her armstorn.
by the briers and her shoes in shreds.
now declared that she would go no further when the Parrot exclaimed.
We have arrived Blondine.
Look that is the enclosure which separates us from the Rose.
Blondine saw at the turn in the path a small enclosure.
the gate of which was quickly opened by the Parrot.
The soil was arid and stony but a magnificent majestic.
rose bush adorned with one Rose which was more beautiful.
than all the roses of the world grew in the midst of this sterile spot.
Take it Blondine said the parrot.
you deserve it you have truly earned it Blondine seized.
the branch eagerly and in spite of the thorns.
Everywhere the furniture was good and comfortable.
The kitchen was filled with pots and kettles.
but there was nothing in them.
Henry again put his thistle.
to his nose and desired to have a good dinner served up.
A table soon appeared.
with good smoking soup.
a splendid leg of lamb.
a roasted pullet and good salad.
They took seats at the table with the appetite.
of those who had not eaten for three years.
The soup was soon swallowed.
the leg of lamb entirely eaten.
then the pullet then the salad.
When their hunger was thus appeased.
the mother aided by Henry.
took off the cloth.
washed and arranged all the dishes.
and then put the kitchen in perfect order.
They then made up their beds.
with the sheets they found in the presses.
and went happily to bed.
thanking God and the good fairy Bienfaisante.
The mother also gave grateful thanks for her dear son Henry.
They lived thus most happily.
they wanted nothing the thistle provided everything.
They did not grow old or sick the claw cured every ill.
They never used that staff.
as they were too happy at home ever to desire to leave it.
Henry asked of his thistle only two cows.
two good horses and the necessaries of life for every day.
He wished for nothing superfluous.
either in clothing or food.
and thus he preserved his thistle as long as he lived.
It is not known when they died.
It is supposed that the Queen of the Fairies.
made them immortal and transported them to her palace.
where they still are.
There was once a king and queen.
who had three daughters.
The two eldest were twins.
and Roussette and their parents loved them very dearly.
They were beautiful and intelligent.
but they were not very good.
In this they resembled the king and queen.
The third princess was called Roussette.
and was three years younger than her sisters.
She was as amiable as she was handsome.
as good as she was beautiful.
The fairy Puissante was Roussettes godmother.
and this made her two sisters.
Orangine and Roussette very jealous.
They were angry because they also had not a fairy.
Some days after the birth of Roussette.
the king and queen sent her to the country.
on a farm to be nursed.
Roussette lived happily here for fifteen years.
without her parents coming once to see her.
Every year they sent a small sum of money to the farmer.
to pay Roussettes expenses and asked some questions.
as to her health but they never came to see her.
nor disturbed themselves about her education.
Roussette would indeed have been very rude.
and ignorant if her good godmother.
the fairy Puissante had not sent her teachers.
and all that was necessary.
In this way Roussette learned to read to write.
to keep accounts and to work beautifully.
She became an accomplished musician.
she knew how to draw and spoke several languages.
Roussette was the most beautiful the most attractive.
the most amiable and the most excellent.
princess in the whole world.
She had never disobeyed her nurse or godmother.
and had therefore never been reproved.
She did not regret her father and mother.
as she did not know them.
and she did not desire any other home.
than the farm where she had been so happy.
One day when Roussette was seated on a bench before the door.
she saw a man arrive in a laced hat and coat.
he approached her and asked.
if he could speak to the princess Roussette.
Yes without doubt answered the princess.
I am the princess Roussette.
Then princess said the man.
respectfully taking off his hat.
be graciously pleased to receive this letter.
which the king your father has charged me to deliver you.
Roussette took the letter opened it.
and read the following.
Roussette Your sisters are now eighteen years old.
and it is time they were marry.
I have invited the princesses and princesses of all the kingdoms.
of the earth to come and assist at a festival.
which I intend to give in order to choose.
husbands for Orangine and Roussette.
You are now fifteen years old.
and can properly appear at this festival.
You may come and pass three days with me.
I will send for you in eight days.
I cannot send you any money for your toilet.
as I am now at great expense for your sisters.
besides no one will look at you.
Come therefore in any clothes you please.
The king your father.
Roussette ran quickly to show this letter to her nurse.
Are you pleased Roussette to go to this festival.
Yes my good nurse I am delighted.
I will enjoy myself and become acquainted with my father.
mother and my sisters and then I will return to you.
But said the nurse shaking her head.
what dress will you wear my poor child.
My beautiful robe of white percale.
which I always wear on holidays my dear nurse.
My poor little one that robe is indeed very suitable.
for the country but would appear.
miserably poor at a party of kings and princesses.
Of what consequence is all this nurse.
My father himself has said that no one will look at me.
This thought will make me much more at my ease.
I shall see all and no one will see me.
The nurse sighed but said nothing and began immediately to mend.
whiten and smooth Rosettes white robe.
The day before the king was to send for her.
the nurse called her and said.
My dear child here is your dress for the kings festival.
be very careful with it as I shall not be there.
to whiten and smooth it for you.
Thanks my good nurse be satisfied I will take great care.
The nurse now packed in a little trunk.
the percale robe and white skirt.
a pair of cotton stockings and black shoes.
and then a little bouquet of flowers for Rosette.
Just as she was about to close the trunk.
the window opened violently and the fairy Puissante entered.
You are going then to your fathers court.
my dear Rosette said the fairy.
Yes dear godmother but only for three days.
But what dress have you prepared for those three days.
Look godmother look and she pointed to the trunk.
which was still open.
The fairy smiled drew a small bottle.
from her pocket and said.
I intend that my dear Rosette shall make a sensation.
This is unworthy of her.
The fairy opened the bottle.
and throw some drops of the liquid it contained upon the robe.
which became a coarse in die rubber cloth.
then a drop upon the cotton stockings.
which changed into blue yarn.
a third drop upon the bouquet.
which became a hens egg.
a fourth upon the shoes.
and they immediately changed into coarse felt.
In this manner said she with a gracious air.
do I wish my Rosette to appear.
You must attire yourself in all this and.
to complete your toilet here is a necklace of nuts.
a band for your hair of burrs and bracelets of dried beans.
She kissed Rosette who was completely stupefied.
The fairy then disappeared and the nurse burst into tears.
Alas it was not worth my while to give myself.
all the trouble of preparing this poor robe.
Oh my poor Roussette Do not go to this festival.
Pretend you are ill my child.
No said Roussette would be to displease my god mother.
I am sure that this what is best for me.
She is much wiser than I am.
I will go and I will wear all that my godmother has brought me.
And the good and obedient Roussette thought no more of her dress.
She went to bed and slept tranquilly.
She had arranged her hair.
and dressed herself in the morning.
when the chariot of the fairy came for her.
She embranced her nurse.
took her little trunk and departed.
While Roussette was only occupied with smiling.
the pleasant thoughts the king.
the queen and the princesses Orangine.
and Roussette were shocking with race.
They had all assembled in the queens apartment.
This is too horrible said the princesses.
Why did you send for this Roussette.
who has such dazzling jewels and makes herself admired.
and sought after by all these foolish kings.
and princes Was it to humiliate us.
my father that you called us to the court at this time.
I swear to you my beautiful darlings.
said the king that it was by the order of the fairy Puissante.
I was compelled to write for her to come.
Besides I did not know that she was so beautiful and that.
So beautiful interrupted the princesses.
Where do you find her so beautiful.
She is indeed ugly and coarse.
It is her magnificent attire alone.
which makes her admire.
Why have you not given to us your most superb jewels.
and your richest robes.
We have the air of young slovens.
by the side of this proud princess.
And where could I possibly have found jewels.
as magnificent as hers.
I have none which would compare with them.
It is her godmother the fairy Puissante.
who has lent her these jewels.
Why then did you summon.
a fairy to be the god mother of Roussette.
when you gave to us only queens for our godmothers.
It was not your father.
who called her cried the queen.
The fairy Puissante herself.
without being called appeared to us.
and signified that she would be Roussettes godmother.
It is not worth while to spend the time.
in disputing and quarrelling said the king.
It is better to occupy ourselves.
in finding some means of getting rid of Roussette.
and preventing Prince Charmant from seeing her again.
Nothing more easy than that said the queen.
I will have her despoiled tomorrow.
of her rare jewels and her beautiful robes.
I will order my servants to seize her.
and carry her back to the farm.
which she shall never leave again.
The queen had scarcely uttered these words.
when the fairy Puissante appeared.
with an angry and threatening air.
If you dare to touch Roussette said she.
with a thundering voice if you do not keep her at the palace.
if she is not present at all the parties.
you shall feel the terrible effects of my anger.
You unworthy king and you heartless queen.
you shall be changed into toads and you.
odious daughters and sisters shall become vipers.
Dare now to touch Roussette.
Saying these words she disappeared.
The king the queen and princesses were horribly frightened.
and separated without saying a single word.
but their hearts were filled with rage.
The princesses slept but little.
and were yet more furious in the morning.
when they saw their eyes heavy.
and their features convulsed by evil passions.
In vain they used rouge and powder and beat their maids.
They had no longer a vestige of beauty.
The king and queen were as unhappy.
and as disappearing as the princesses.
and indeed they saw no remedy.
for their grief and disappointment.
While Roussette was thus sleeping peacefully.
the king the queen and Orangine and Roussette.
purple with race were quarrelly.
and disputing amongst themselves.
Each was accusing the other of having brought.
about the triumph of Roussette.
and their own humiliating defeat.
One last hope remained for them.
In the morning there was to be a chariot race.
Each chariot was to be drawn by two horses and driven by a lady.
It was resolved to give Roussette a very high chariot.
drawn by two wild untrained and prancing horses.
Prince Charmants will have no chariot.
and horses to exchange said the queen.
as he had this morning in the case of the riding horse.
It is easy to find a horse of the saddle.
but it will be impossible for him to find.
a chariot ready for the coarse.
The consoling thought that Roussette might be killed.
or grievously wounded and disfigured on the morrow.
brought peace to these four wicked beings.
They retired and dreamed of the next best means.
of ridding themselves of Roussette if the chariot race failed.
Orangine and Roussette slept.
but little so that in the morning.
they were still uglier and more unprepossessing.
than they had appeared the day before.
Roussette who had a tranquil conscience.
and contented heart slept all night calmly.
She had been much fatigued.
and did not wake till a late hour.
Indeed on rising she found.
she had scarcely time to dress.
The coarse kitchen girl brought her a cup of milk.
and a piece of bread.
This was by order of the queen.
who directed that she should be treated like a servant.
Roussette was not difficult to please.
She ate the coarse bread.
and milk with appetite and began to dress.
The case of carved ivory had disappeared.
She put on as usual her robe of coarse cloth.
her pullets wing and all the rude ornaments.
she had brought from the farm.
and then looked at her self in the glass.
She was attired in a riding habit of straw coloured satin.
embroidered in front.
and at the hem with sapphires and emeralds.
Her hat was of white velvet.
ornamented with plumes of a thousand colours.
taken from the plumage of the rarest birds.
and attached by a sapphire larger than an egg.
On her neck was a chain of sapphires.
at the end of which was a watch.
the face of which was opal.
the back of carved sapphire and the glass diamond.
This watch was always going.
was never out of order and never required to be wound up.
Roussette heard her page at the door and followed him.
On entering the salon she perceived Prince Charmant.
who was awaiting her with the most lively impatience.
He sprang forward to receive her.
offered his arm and said with eagerness.
Well dear princess what did the fairy say to you.
What answer do you give me.
That which my heart dictated sweet prince.
I consecrate my life to you.
as you have dedicated yours to me.
Thanks a thousand times thanks.
dear and bewitching Rousette.
When may I demand your hand of the king your father.
At the close of the chariot race dear prince.
Permit me to add to my first petition.
that of being married to you this very day.
I cannot bear to see you subjected to the family.
and I wish to conduct you at once to my kingdom.
The soft voice of the fairy whispered in her ear.
The same voice whispered to Charmant.
Phrase the marriage prince and speak to the king without delay.
Roussettes life is in danger.
and during eight days from the setting of the sun.
this evening I cannot watch over her.
Charmant trembled and repeated the fairys words to.
Roussette who replied that it was a warning.
they must not neglect as it undoubtedly came.
from the fairy Puissante.
The princess now advanced to salute the king.
the queen and her sisters.
but they neither looked at her nor spoke to her.
of kings and princes each one of whom.
had himself proposed to ask her hand.
in marriage that evening but no one had an opportunity.
to speak to her as Charmant.
never let her side a single moment.
After the repast they went down to get into the chariots.
The kings and princes were to go on horse back.
and the ladies to drive the chariots.
The chariot designed for Roussette.
by the queen was now brought forward.
Charmant seized Roussette at the moment.
she was about to take the reins.
and lifted her to the ground.
You shall not enter this chariot princess.
Look at these wild ungovernable horses.
Roussette now saw that it took four men.
to hold each of the horses.
and that they were prancing and jumping alarmingly.
At this instant a pretty little jockey.
attired in a straw coloured satin vest.
with blue ribbon knots exclaimed in silvery tones.
The equipage of the Princess Roussette.
And now a little chariot of pearls and mother of pearl.
drawn by two magnificent steeds with harness.
of straw coloured velvet ornamented with sapphires.
drew up before the princess.
Charmant scarcely knew whether to allow Roussette.
to mount this unknown chariot.
for he still feared some cunning wickedness.
of the king and queen.
But the voice of the fairy sounded in his ear.
Allow Roussette to ascend the chariot.
these horses are a present from me.
Follow them wherever they may take Roussette.
The day is advancing.
I have but a few horse left in which I can be of service.
to Roussette and she must be safe.
in your kingdom before the day closes.
Charmant assisted Roussette to ascend the chariot.
and sprang up his horse.
A few moments afterwards.
two chariots driven by veiled women.
advanced in front of Roussette.
One of them dashed her chariot.
with such violence against that of Roussette.
that the little chariot of mother of pearl.
would inevitably have been crushed.
had it not been constructed by fairies.
The heavy and massive chariot was dashed.
to pieces instead of Roussettes.
The veiled woman was thrown upon the stones.
where she remained immovable whilst Roussette.
who had recognized Orangine.
tried to stop her own horses.
The other chariot now dashed against.
that of Roussette and was crushed like the first.
and the veiled woman was also dashed upon the stones.
which seemed placed there to receive her.
Roussette recognised Roussette.
and was about to descend from her chariot.
when Charmant interfered and said Listen Rousette.
A voice whispered Go flee quickly.
The king is pursuing you with a great company to killed you both.
The sun will set in a few hours.
I have barely time to rescue you.
from this danger so give my horses the reins.
Charmant sprang into the chariot.
by the side of Rosette who was more deed than alive.
The superb steeds set off which such marvellous speed.
that they made more than twenty leagues an hour.
For a long time they knew that they were pursued.
by the king with a numerous of armed men.
but they could not overtake the horses of the fairy.
The chariot still flew on with lightning haste.
the horses increased their speed.
till at last they made a hundred leagues an hour.
During six hours they kept up this rate.
and then drew up at the foot.
of the stairs of Prince Charmant.
The whole palace was illuminated.
and all the courtiers were waiting at the entrance.
in their most magnificent costumes.
to welcome the princess and the prince.
The prince and Roussette were amazed.
not knowing how to understand this unexpected reception.
Charmant had just assisted the princess.
to descend from the chariot.
when they saw before them the fairy Puissante who said.
Most welcome to your kingdom.
Prince Charmant follow me all is prepared for your marriage.
Conduct Rosette to her room.
that she may change her dress.
whilst I explain to you all the events.
of this day which seem to incomprehensible to you.
I have one hour at my disposal.
The fairy and Charmant now led Rosette to an apartment.
ornamented with the most exquisite taste.
where she found her maids waiting to attend upon her.
I will return to seek you in a short time.
my dear Rosette said the fairy my moments are counted.
She departed with Charmant and said to him.
The hatred of the king.
and queen against Rousette had become so intense.
that they had blindly resolved to defy my vengeance.
and to get rid of Rousette.
Seeing that their cunning arrangements.
in the chariot race had not succeeded.
after I substituted my horses.
for those which would certainly have killed Rousette.
they resolved to have recourse to violence.
The king employed a band of brigands.
who swore to him a blind obedience.
they pursued your steps with vengeance in their hearts.
and as the king knew your love for Rousette.
and foresaw that you would defend her to the death.
he was resolved to sacrifice you also to his hatred.
Orangine and Roussette ignorant of this last project.
of the king attempted to kill Roussette.
as you have seen by dashing their heavy chariots violently.
against the light chariot of the princess.
I have punished them as they deserved.
Orangine and Roussette have had their faces.
so crushed and wounded by the stones.
that they have over come frightful.
I have aroused them from their state of unconsciousness.
cured their wounds but left the hideous scars to disfigure them.
I have deprived them of all their rich clothing.
and dressed them like peasants and I married them.
at once to two brutal ostlers whom I commissioned.
to beat and maltreat them until their wicked hearts.
are changed and this I think will never take place.
As to the king and queen.
I had changed them into beasts of burden.
and given them to wicked and cruel masters.
who will make them suffer for all their brutality to Roussette.
Besides this they have all been transported.
into your kingdom and they will be compelled to hear.
unceasingly the praises of Roussette and their husband.
I have but one piece of advice to give you.
dear prince hide from Roussette the punishment.
I have inflicted upon her parents and sisters.
She is so good and tender hearted.
that her happiness would be affected by it.
but I ought not and will not take pity.
upon wicked people whose hearts are so vicious and unrepentant.
Charmant thanked the fairy eagerly and promised silence.
They now returned to Roussette.
he looked through the curtains.
and thought how easy it is to be a king.
these people are here to serve me.
the procession moved on and the sun grew hot.
the stone cutter now the king became too warm for comfort.
he asked the procession to stop.
so that he could rest for some time.
at once the chief of the soldiers bent.
before the king and said your majesty.
only this morning you swore to have me hanged to death.
if we did not reach the palace before the sun set.
the stone cutter felt sorry for him.
and ordered the procession to go on its way again.
to find someone in need.
and share what he had and tell his.
and share what he had and tell his.
the little sisters went into the room to play at ball.
we must be careful not to wake.
the white cat the tall one said .
or to spoil the roses the fat one whispered.
but throw high dear sister.
or we shall never hit the ceiling.
you dear children thought the white cat.
why do you come to play here at all.
only just round the corner are the shady trees.
and the birds singing on the branches.
and the sunshine is flecking the pathway.
who knows but what out there.
your ball might touch the sky.
here you will only disturb me.
and perhaps spoil the roses.
and at best you can but hit the ceiling.
so little bridget took the baby on her right arm.
and a jug in her left hand.
and went to the farm to get the milk.
on her way she went by the garden gate of a large house.
that stood close to the farm.
and she told the baby a story.
last summer she said a little girl bigger than you.
for she was just able to walk.
came to stay in that house.
she and her father and mother.
all about the road just here.
the ducks and the chickens from the farm.
used to walk about all the day long.
but the poor little ducks were very unhappy
for they had no pond to swim about in.
only that narrow ditch which is flowing.
when the little girls father saw this.
he took a spade and worked and worked very hard.
and out of the ditch and the stream let.
he made a little pond for the ducks.
and they swam about and were very happy.
all through the summer days.
every morning i used to stand and watch.
and presently the garden gate would open.
and then the father would come out.
leading the little girl by the hand.
and the mother brought a plateful broken.
the little girl used to throw the bread to the ducks.
and they ran after it and ate it up quickly.
while she laughed out with glee.
and her parents laughed too just as merrily baby.
the father had blue eyes.
and a voice that you seemed to hear with your heart.
the little girl used to feed the chickens too.
and the foolish old turkey that was so fond of her.
it would run after her.
until she screamed and was afraid.
the dear father and the little girl.
came out every morning.
while the black pigs looked.
through the barls of the farm yard gate.
and grunted at them as if they were glad.
and i think the ducks knew.
that the father had made the pond.
for they swam round and round it proudly.
while he watched them.
but when he went away they seemed tired and sad.
the pond is not there now baby.
for a man came by one day.
and made it into the ditch again.
and the chickens and the ducks from the farm.
they are kept in another place.
the little girl is far away in her own home.
which the father made for her.
and the dear father lives in his own home too.
in the hearts of those he loved.
that was the story that bridget told the baby.
once when a lion was asleep.
a little mouse began running up and down upon him.
this soon wakened the lion.
who placed his huge paw upon him.
and opened his big jaws to swallow him.
pardon cried the little mouse.
forgive me this time i shall never repeat it.
and i shall never forget your kindness.
and who knows but i may be able.
to do you a good turn one of these days.
the lion was so tickled.
at the idea of the mouse being able to help him.
that he lifted up his paw and let him go.
sometime later a few hunters captured the king.
and tied him to a tree.
while they went in search of a wagon to carry him on.
just then the little mouse happened to pass by.
and seeing the sad plight in which the lion was.
he ran up to him and soon gnawed away.
the ropes that bound the king of the beasts.
was i not right said the little mouse.
very happy to help the lion.
little friends may prove great friend.
once upon a time a couple had the good fortune.
to have a goose which laid a golden egg every day.
lucky though they were they soon began to think.
they were not getting rich fast enough.
if the bird must be able to lay golden eggs.
its insides must be made of gold.
and they thought that if they could get.
all that precious metal at once.
they would get mighty rich very soon.
so the man and his wife decided to kill the bird.
however upon cutting the goose open.
they were shocked to find that.
its innards were like that of any other goose.
once upon a time there lived a very cunning fox.
who always wanted to cheat.
and deceive others with its awful and stupid acts.
the fox used to deceive others with its sneaky mind.
he used to speak to other animals sweetly.
to make him trustworthy.
one day he tried to cheat.
and have fun with a stork.
he befriended the stork and gained the trust.
the fox acted like a very good friend.
and cared a lot for the stork.
one day he invited the stork to have a feast with him.
and he wanted to treat his friend with delicious food.
the happy stork accepted the invitation.
the fox promised to offer rich.
the tasty food for the stork.
considering the delicious dinner proposed by the fox.
the stork remained hungry for the whole day.
fox took the stork to his home.
he apologized to the stork.
that he could not make anything.
due to his illness and offered some soup.
the stork although disappointed.
cared for the fox and was happy with the soup.
the cunning fox offered the soup in a shallow bowl.
the stork was stunned to have the soup in the shallow bowl.
the long bill of the stork prevented it to take the soup.
as the fox easily licked the soup from the plate.
the stork was not able to even taste a bit of the soup.
it just touched the soup with the tip of its bill.
the fox asked the stork how is the soup do not you like it.
the hungry stork replied it is good.
but i have stomach upset and i cant take any more soup.
i am sorry for troubling you said the fox.
the stork replied dear please do not say sorry.
i have some health problem.
and cannot enjoy what you offer.
please take care of your health.
she left the place thanking the fox.
however the stork understood.
that it was cheated by the fox.
and decided to teach him a lesson.
after a few days the fox met the stork again.
and decided to play another prank on the stork.
this time it was the storks turn.
the stork welcomed the fox happily.
and invited to pay a return visit to have a dinner.
the fox was happy and they decided on a date.
to have the dinner the stork asked the fox favourite food.
and offered to cook the same for the dinner.
the day arrived and the fox reached the storks place.
the stork served soup to the fox.
and asked him to have soup first.
the soup was served in a narrow jar with a long neck.
the stork was able to drink.
the soup very easily with its long bill.
however the fox could not.
the stork asked the fox to enjoy the soup.
and showed several delicious dishes in long necked jars.
the disappointed fox said.
my stomach is very painfull.
i am leaving now and left the place running.
once was a speedy hare.
who bragged about how fast he could run.
tired of hearing him boast.
the tortoise challenged him to a race.
all the animals in the forest gathered to watch.
the hare ran down the road for a while.
and then and paused to rest.
he looked back at the tortoise and cried out.
how do you expect to win this race.
when you are walking along at your slow slow pace.
the hare stretched himself out.
alongside the road and fell asleep.
thinking there is plenty of time to relax.
who was clothed in her wedding robe.
then there would be no danger for me.
he strode from the room.
prepared by the fairy Puissante.
What can it be A prisoner.
Rosalie slept tranquilly until morning.
It was a tissue of dazzling golden gauze.
My father is good.
The sun was shining brightly when she awoke.
embroidered with garlands of flowers and birds.
he would not deprive any unfortunate innocent.
She looked about her with great surprise.
in stones of all colors of admirable beauty.
of light and liberty Well.
The wicked mouse was not near her to terrify her.
the jewels which formed the birds were so disposed.
I absolutely must discover this mystery.
it had happily disappeared.
as to produce at every motion of Rosette.
How shall I manage it.
Am I delivered from this wicked fairy Detestable.
a war bling more melodious than the sweetest music.
If I could only secretly.
said she joyfully.
Upon her head was a crown of.
get the key from my father for a half hour.
Am I in the hands of a fairy more powerful than herself.
flowers made of gems still.
Perhaps someday he will forget it.
Rosalie now stepped to the window.
more beautiful and rare than those on her robe.
Rosalie was aroused from this chain of reflection.
and saw many armed men and many officers.
Her neck and arms were covered with carbuncles.
by her father who called to her.
dressed in brilliant uniforms.
more brilliant than the sun.
with a strangely agitated voice.
More and more surprised.
Charmant was completely dazzled by his brides beauty.
Here father I am coming.
she was about to call one.
but the fairy recalled him from his ecstasy by saying.
She entered the house and looked steadily at her father.
of the men whom she believed to be either geni.
Quick quick onward I have but half an hour.
His pale sad countenance indicated great agitation.
or enchanters when she heard footsteps approaching.
after which I must give myself up to the queen.
More than ever curious she resolved to feign gaiety.
She turned and saw the prince Gracious.
of the fairies and lose my power for eight days.
and indifference in order to allay her fathers suspicions.
clothed in an elegant and rich hunting dress.
We are all subject to this law.
and make him feel secure.
standing before her and regarding her with admiration.
and nothing can free us from it.
In this way she thought she might perhaps obtain possession.
Rosalie immediately recognized the prince of her dream.
Charmant presented his hand to Rosette.
of the key at some future time.
and cried out involuntarily.
and the fairy preceded them.
He might not always think of it if she herself.
The prince Gracious.
They walked towards the chapel.
seemed to have forgotten it.
You know me then said the prince in amazement.
which was brilliantly illuminated.
They seated themselves at the table.
How if you have ever known me.
and here Charmant and Rosette received the nuptial benediction.
Prudent ate but little and was sad and silent.
could I have forgotten your name and features.
On returning to the parlor.
in spite of his efforts to appear gay.
I have only seen you in my dreams prince.
they perceived that the fairy had disappeared.
Rosalie however seemed so thoughtless.
said Rosalie blushing.
but as they were sure of again seeing her.
and bright that her father.
As to my name you could not possibly know it.
in eight days her absence caused them no anxiety.
at last recovered his accustomed good spirits.
since I myself did not know my fathers name until yesterday.
Charmant presented the new queen to his court.
Rosalie would be fifteen years old in three weeks.
And what is the name may I ask.
Everybody found her as charming.
Her father had promised an agreeable surprise for this event.
which has been concealed from you so long.
and good as the prince.
A few days passed peacefully away.
Rosalie then told him all that she had heard from her father.
and they felt disposed to love her as they loved him.
There remained but fifteen days before her birth day.
She frankly confessed her culpable curiosity.
With a most amiable and thoughtful attention.
One morning Prudent said to Rosalie.
and its terrible consequences.
the fairy had transported the farm.
My dear child I am compelled to be absent.
Judge of my grief prince.
upon which Rosette had been so happy.
I must go out to arrange something.
when I was compelled to leave my father.
and all its occupants into Charmants kingdom.
for your birth day.
in order to escape from the flames which.
This farm was placed at the end of the park.
Wait for me in the house my dear.
the wicked fairy had lighted when rejected everywhere because of the.
so that Rosette could walk there every day.
Do not yield yourself up to idle curiosity.
wicked mouse I found myself exposed to death.
and see her good nurse.
In fifteen days you will know all that you desire.
from hunger and thirst Soon.
The fairy had also brought into the palace.
to know for I read your thoughts.
however a heavy sleep took pos session.
all those cases which contained the rich dresses.
and I know what occupies your mind.
of me during which I had many strange dreams.
in which Rosette had been so triumphant at the festivals.
Adieu my daughter beware of curiosity.
I do not know how I came here or whether.
Rosette and Charmant were very happy.
Prudent embraced his daughter tenderly.
it is in your palace that I find myself.
and loved each other tenderly always.
and withdrew leaving her with great reluctance.
Gracious then related to Rosalie how he had found her.
Rosette never knew the terrible punishment.
As soon as he was out of sight.
asleep in the forest and the words which he had heard.
of her father mother and sisters.
Rosalie ran to her fathers room.
her utter in her dream He then added.
When she asked Charmant the fate of her sisters.
and what was her joy to see.
There is one thing your father did not tell you.
he told her that their faces were must disfigured.
the key forgotten upon the table.
Rosalie that is that the queen of the fairies.
by their fall amongst the stones.
She seized it and ran quickly to the end of the park.
who is our relation had decided that.
but they were well and married.
Arrived at the little house.
we should be married when.
and good fairy expressly forbade.
she remembered the words of her father.
you were fifteen years of age.
Rosette to think of them.
Beware of curiosity She hesitated.
It was no doubt the queen of the fairies who.
She spoke of them no more.
and was upon the point of returning.
inspired me with the desire to go hunting by torchlight.
As to Oraganise and Roussette.
the key without having looked at the.
in order that I might find you in the forest.
and more unhappy they were.
house when she thought she heard a light groan.
where you had wandered.
the more cruel and wicked their hearts became.
She put her ear against the door.
Since you will be fifteen in a few days.
so the fairy allowed them to remain always ugly.
and heard a very little voice singing softly.
Rosalie design to consider my palace.
and in the most degraded ranks of life.
A lonely prisoner I pine.
as your own and command here in advance as my queen.
The king and queen changed into beasts of burden.
No hope of freedom now is mine.
Your father will soon be restored to you.
found their only consolation in biting.
I soon must draw my latest breath.
and we will celebrate our happy marriage.
and kicking everything that came within their reach.
And in this dungeon meet my death.
Rosalie thanked her young.
They were obliged to carry their masters.
No doubt said Rosalie to herself.
and handsome cousin heartily and then.
to festivals given in honor of Rosettes marriage.
this is some unfortunate creature.
returned to her chamber.
and they were mad with rage.
whom my father holds captive.
where she found her maids awaiting her.
when they heard the praises lavished.
Tapping softly upon the door.
with a wonderful selection of rich.
upon the young couple.
she said Who are you.
and splendid robes and head dresses.
and in seeing Rosette pass by.
and what can I do for you.
Rosalie who had never given much attention to her toilet.
beautiful radiant and adored by Charmant.
Open the door Rosalie I pray you open the door.
took the first dress that was presented to her.
The fairy had resolved.
But why are you a prisoner.
It was of rose colored gauze.
that they should not return.
Have you not committed some crime.
ornamented with fine lace with.
to their original forms.
An enchanter keeps me here a prisoner.
a head dress of lace and moss rosebuds.
till their hearts were changed.
Save me and I will prove my gratitude by telling.
Her beautiful chestnut hair was arranged in bands.
It is said that six thousand years have passed.
you truly who I am.
When her toilet was completed.
and they are still of burden.
Rosalie no longer hesitated.
the prince came to conduct her to breakfast.
THERE was once a man named Prudent.
her curiosity was stronger than her obedience.
Rosalie ate like a person who had not dined the day before.
who was a widower and he lived.
She put the key in the lock.
After the repast the prince led her to the garden.
alone with his little daughter.
but her hand trembled so that she could not open it.
and conducted her to the green houses.
His wife had died a few days.
She was about to give up the effort.
which were very magnificent.
after the birth of this little girl.
when the little voice continued.
At the end of one of the hot houses there was.
who was named Rosalie.
Rosalie that which I have to tell you will teach.
a little rotunda ornamented with choice flowers.
Rosalies father had a large fortune.
you many things which will interest you.
in the centre of this rotunda.
He lived in a great house.
Your father is not what he appears to be.
there was a large case which seemed to contain a tree.
which belonged to him.
At these words Rosalie made a last effort.
but a thick heavy cloth was thrown.
This house was surrounded by a large garden.
the key turned and the door opened.
over it and tightly sewed together.
in which Rosalie walked whenever.
WHILE Rosalie was thus quietly sleeping.
Through the cloth however could be seen.
she pleased to do so.
the prince Gracious was.
a number of points of extraordinary brilliancy.
She had been trained with great tenderness.
engaged in a hunt through the forest by torch light.
THUS passed the entire day.
and gentleness but her father had accustomed her.
The fawn pursued fiercely by the dogs.
Rosalie suffered cruelly with thirst.
to the most unquestioning obedience.
came trembling with terror to crouch down.
Ought I not suffer even more than I do.
He forbade her positively to ask him.
near the brook by which Rosalie was sleeping.
she said to herself in order to punish me.
any useless questions or to insist.
The dogs and gamekeepers sprang forward after the fawn.
for all I have made my father.
upon knowing anything he did not wish to tell her.
Suddenly the dogs ceased barking.
and my cousin endure.
In this way by unceasing care and watchfulness.
and grouped themselves silently around Rosalie.
I will wait in this terrible spot.
he had almost succeeded in curing.
The prince dismounted from his horse to set the dogs.
and dawning of my fifteenth birthday.
one of Rosalies great faults.
again upon the trail of the deer.
The night was falling when an old woman.
a fault indeed unfortunately too common curiosity.
what was his surprise to see a lovely young girl.
who was passing by approached and said.
Rosalie never left the park.
asleep in this lonely forest.
My beautiful child will you oblige me by taking care.
which was surrounded by high walls.
He looked carefully around but saw no one else.
of this casket which is very heavy to carry.
She never saw any one but her father.
She was indeed alone abandoned.
while I go a short distance to see one of my relations.
They had no domestic in the house.
On examining her more closely.
Willingly madam replied Rosalie who was very obliging.
everything seemed to be done of itself.
he saw traces of tears.
The old woman placed the casket in her hands.
She always had what she wanted.
upon her cheeks and indeed they were still escaping slowly from.
saying Many thanks my beautiful child.
clothing books work and playthings.
her closed eye lids.
I shall not be absent long.
Her father educated her himself.
Rosalie was simply clothed.
But I entreat you not to look in this casket.
and although she was nearly fifteen years old.
but the richness of her silk dress denoted wealth.
for it contains things such as you have never seen.
she was never weary and never thought.
Her fine white hands.
and as you will never have an opportunity to see again.
that she might live.
her rosy nails her beautiful chestnut.
Do not handle it rudely.
otherwise and might see more of the world.
locks carefully and tastefully arranged with a gold comb.
for it is of very fragile ware.
There was a little house at the end of the park.
her elegant boots and necklace of pure pearls.
and would be very easily broken.
without windows and with but one door.
indicated elevated rank.
and then you would see what it contains.
which was always locked.
Rosalie did not awake.
and no one ought to see what is there concealed.
Rosalies father entered this house every day.
not with standing the stamping of the horses.
The old woman went off after saying this.
and always carried the key about his person.
the baying of the dogs and the noisy tumult.
Rosalie placed the casket near her.
Rosalie thought it was only a little hut.
made by a crowd of sportsmen.
and reflected on all the events which had just passed.
in which the garden tools were kept.
The prince was stupefied.
It was now night and the old woman did not return.
She never thought of speaking about it.
and stood gazing steadily at Rosalie.
Rosalie now threw her eyes on the casket.
but one day when she was seeking.
No one present recognized her.
and saw with surprise that is illuminated.
a watering pot for her flowers.
Anxious and disquainted by this profound sleep.
the ground all around her.
she said to him Father.
Prince Gracious took her hand .
What can there be in this casket.
please give me the key.
Rosalie still slept.
which is so brilliant said she.
of the little house in the garden.
The prince pressed her hand lightly in his but even.
She turned it round and round and regarded it from.
What do you want with this key Rosalie.
this did not awaken her.
but nothing could explain.
I want a watering pot.
Turning to his officers.
this extraordinary light.
and I think I could find one that little house.
he said I cannot thus abandon.
and she placed it carefully upon the ground.
No Rosalie there is no watering pot there.
this unfortunate child.
saying Of what importance is it to me.
Prudents voice trembled.
who has perhaps been led astray by some design.
what this casket contains.
so in pronouncing these words.
the victim of some cruel wickedness.
It is not mine but belongs to the old woman.
that Rosalie looked up with surprise.
But how can she be removed while she is .
who confided it to me.
and saw that his face was pale.
prince said Hubert his principal gamekeeper.
I will not think of it again for fear.
and his forehead bathed in perspiration.
can we a litter of branches.
I may be tempted to open it.
What is the matter father said she alarmed.
and thus remove her to some hostel in.
In fact she no longer looked at it.
Nothing daughter nothing.
the neighborhood while your highness continues the chase.
and endeavored not to think of it.
It was my asking for the key.
Your idea is good Hubert.
she now closed her eyes resolved.
which agitated you so violently father.
Make the litter and we will immediately place her upon.
to wait patiently till the dawn.
What does this little house.
it only you will not carry her to a hostel.
In the morning I shall years of age.
contain which frightens you so much.
but to my palace.
I shall see my father and Gracious.
Rosalie Rosalie you do not know what you are saying.
This young maiden is assuredly of high birth.
and will have nothing more to fear.
Go and look for your watering pot in the green house.
and she is beautiful as an angel.
from the wicked fairy.
But father what is there.
I will watch over her myself.
Rosalie Rosalie said suddenly the small voice.
in the little garden house.
so that she may receive the care.
of the little mouse I am near you once more.
Nothing that can interest you Rosalie.
and attention to which she is entitled.
I am no longer your enemy and to prove that.
But why do you go there every day.
Hubert with the assistance of his men.
I am not if you wish it I will show you.
without permitting me to go with you.
soon arranged the litter upon which Prince Gracious spread his mantle.
what this casket contains.
Rosalie you know that I do not like.
then approaching Rosalie.
Rosalie did not reply.
to be questioned and that curiosity.
who was still sleeping softly.
Rosalie do you not hear what I propose.
is the greatest defect in your character.
he raised her gently in his arms.
I am your friend believe me.
Rosalie said no more but she remained very thoughtful.
and laid her upon the cloak.
No reply Then the little gray mouse.
This little house of which she had never before thought.
At this moment Rosalie seemed to be dreaming.
having no time to lose.
was now constantly in her mind.
She smiled and murmured in low tones.
sprang upon the casket and began to the lid.
What can be concealed there.
My father my father saved forever.
Monster cried Rosalie seizing the casket.
she said to herself.
The Queen of the Fairies The Prince Gracious.
and pressing it against her bosom.
How pale my father turned when I asked his permission.
I see him he is charming.
if you touch this casket again I will wring.
to enter I am sure he thought.
The prince surprised to hear his name pronounced.
your neck The mouse cast a diabolical glance upon Rosalie.
I should be in some sort of danger.
did not doubt that Rosalie was a princess.
but it dared not brave her anger.
But why does he go there himself every day.
under some cruel enchantment.
While it was meditating some other means of exciting.
is no doubt to carry food.
He commanded his gamekeepers to walk very .
the curiosity of Rosalie a clock struck twelve.
to some ferocious beast confined there.
so as not to wake her and he walked by the side of the litter.
At the same moment the mouse uttered a cry.
But if it was some wild animal.
On arriving at the palace Prince Gracious ordered that.
of rage and disappointment and said to Rosalie.
would I not hear it roar or howl.
the queens apartment should be prepared for Rosalie.
Rosalie the hour of your birth has just sounded.
or check the house.
He suffered no one to touch her but carried her.
You are now fifteen you have nothing more to fear from me.
have never heard any sound from this cabin.
himself to her chamber and laid her gently upon the bed.
You are now beyond my power and my temptations.
It cannot then be a beast.
ordering the women who were to wait upon.
as are also odious father and hated prince.
Besides if it was a ferocious beast.
and watch over her to apprise him.
As to myself I am compelled to keep this ignoble.
devour my father when he entered alone.
as soon as she awaked.
form of mouse until I can tempt some young girl.
Perhaps however it is chained.
Then casting a farewell look upon the sad.
beautiful and well born.
But if it is indeed chained.
sweet face of the sleeper.
as yourself to fall into my snares.
Adieu Rosalie you can now open the casket.
Saying these words the mouse disappeared.
Rosalie wisely disturbing these words of her enemy.
would not follow her last counsel.
and resolved to guard the casket carefully.
till the dawn Scarcely had she taken this resolution.
when an owl which was flying above her head.
let a stone fall upon the casket.
which broke into a thousand pieces.
Rosalie uttered a cry of terror.
and at the same moment she saw before her the queen.
